
Together, the friends climbed the porch steps and took seats on the
ancient but comfortable wicker settee.

Henry darted a quick glance at his partner. Saw that the professor's
face once more was placid; that the storm was over. Unconsciously, the
little man's goatee perked up. He readjusted his steel-rimmed glasses to
a more stable position.

"Honestly, Joseph, this time my invention can't do any harm," he
ventured. "Really it can't."

For a moment fire flashed in the scientist's eyes. Then faded again.

"All right, Henry. What is it this time?"

Henry extended the binoculars.

"Here, Joseph. Look at the nudist camp."

"But the fence--"

"Please, Joseph. Go ahead and look."

"Oh, all right--"

The professor raised the field glasses.

The next instant he nearly dropped them.

"What on earth--!"

"See, Joseph?" shrilled Henry. "Isn't it a wonderful invention? Isn't
it?"

His tall partner took down the binoculars and stared at them in blank
amazement, his face a puzzled mask.

"I'd swear I saw right through that fence!" he gasped. "I looked right
into the middle of a whole pack of nudists!"

"Of course!" Henry was bubbling with delight. "That's why I call them my
X-ray eyeglasses. You can see through anything with them." He took the
glasses from the professor. Again leveled them at the nudist colony.

Then, giggling:

"Doesn't that blonde girl have the cutest--"

"Henry!"

"Oh, all right." The little man returned the binoculars to his partner,
who studied them with interest.

"Just what principle do these things work on, Henry?" he asked
curiously.

Henry beamed. His goatee was at its jauntiest, most confident angle. The
light of triumph played in his eyes.

"Really, Joseph, it's quite simple," he proclaimed. "There are lots of
rays that go through anything, you know, except maybe lead. So I just
developed a special glass that translated those rays into images,
instead of just using the light rays. It was easy. The only thing you
have to be careful of is to focus real close, because otherwise you'll
look right through the thing you want to see--"

"Simple!" choked the scientist. "Easy! Henry, I hope you kept complete
notes this once." He raised the glasses again. Studied a signboard on
the nearby road.

"Oh, yes, I've got good notes, Joseph--"

"And you still need a concave eyepiece, so that the images won't
reverse," Professor Paulsen interrupted. "The way it works now, pictures
are all right, but 'CAMELS' are spelled 'SLEMAC'."
