
And so it was, ten minutes later, that the three appeared at the main
gate of the Sunset Glow Nudist Colony: Let Old Sol Bring You Health.
From within the fenced enclosure came the glow of firelight and the
sound of festivities. A burly short-clad gateman was on duty.

"Well?" he demanded.

Major Coggleston displayed his credentials.

"You've got a man in there whom we suspect of being a spy," he
explained. "We've got to come in and investigate."

The gateman hesitated and chewed his lower lip.

"O.K.," he said finally. "Ditch your clothes in the brush, over there."

"Ditch our clothes!"

"Sure." The gateman nodded determinedly. "You didn't think you could
come in the way you are, did you?"

"But we represent the United States Government--"

"I don't give a damn who you represent." The gateman was adamant. "If
you want to enter Sunset Glow, you'll do it in bare skin or not at all."

The three stared from one to another. At last the major broke the
silence.

"All right," he snapped. "Have it your own way. I suppose we _would_
stand out like sore thumbs if we wore clothes."

It took the trio but a minute to disrobe. They slipped through the gate,
a strange sight: Henry, small and spindly, chin-whiskers waving
animatedly; Professor Paulsen, gaunt, lean-shanked, stooped; and Major
Coggleston, still strong and well-built, but with a noticeable spare
tire beginning to develop around his midriff.

Inside, a great open fire was burning, with a throng of male and female
nudists disporting themselves about it. Some were toasting wieners and
marshmallows; other only their own epidermis. There was much laughter
and good-natured raillery.

"Joseph!" exclaimed Henry tensely, his goatee quivering to a point like
a setter's tail. "There! See her? That blonde girl--"

His colleague turned on him.

"Henry Horn, I'm warning you for the last time!" he clipped. "We're
having a hard enough time as it is, without your calling that young
lady's anatomical details to our attention. So keep quiet!"

"Oh, all right," the little man sulked. "Just because you think you're
smarter than I am--"

"Joe! Henry!" Major Coggleston interrupted excitedly. "Look! That man
walking off into the shadows! Hasn't he red hair?"

The two friends shot quick glances in the direction the officer pointed.

"That's him!" squealed Henry, dancing about like a monkey on a stick.
"That's the man who bought my glasses!"

"Come on!" The major darted forward, looking for all the world like an
oversize kewpie doll. Henry and the professor followed close on his
heels.
