
"So what do you plan to do with us?" demanded the major. "You can see
you haven't a chance to get away--"

"Haven't I?"

"The camp is surrounded."

"Sure." Their captor was amused. "That's why I grabbed you. The four of
us are going to march out of here together. And you"--he jerked his head
toward Major Coggleston--"are going to make your boys lay off. You'll go
with me 'til I'm satisfied I'm in the clear. Then I'll turn you loose."

"And if we refuse?" grated the major.

The other shrugged.

"O.K. by me," he said. "We all blow up together."

There was a long moment of silence, pregnant with panic.

"You must have a great deal of confidence in your ability as a chemist,
to prepare this explosive on such short notice and with limited
equipment," Professor Paulsen commented at last.

The red-headed man laughed.

"Why shouldn't I have?" he demanded. "I may have been raised in
Brooklyn, but I learned my business in Berlin, and they know how to
teach there."

Another long silence.

"Well, make up your mind!" their captor grunted finally. "We ain't got
all night, you know. Do you come quiet, or do I have to blow us all to
smithereens?" He waved the package in his hand menacingly.

Major Coggleston threw up his hands in a gesture of defeat.

"You win!" he snapped. "If I were alone, I'd say blow and be damned. But
my friends deserve a better fate."

"You're smart," the other reported approvingly. "Come on!"

Slowly, the trio moved forward.

"Hurry up!" grated the red-head. And then, to the professor: "You
skinny, get a move on!"

For the gaunt savant was distinctly lagging. He had dropped back until
he was a full yard behind Henry and the major, and only a step in front
of the spy.

"Hurry up!" the Nazi repeated, his eyes suddenly cold and menacing.

"Joseph! Come on!" urged Henry, his teeth chattering. "Don't make him
mad! Please, Joseph!"

"I'm coming," grunted the scientist. "I certainly can't be blamed if the
pebbles and twigs hurt my feet, can I?"

And with that, he sprang.

Like a human octopus, all long arms and legs, he launched himself at the
spy. His hands clutched at the red-head's throat. His legs wrapped
around the man's waist and dashed him backward to the ground.

"Help!" screamed the spy. With a wild motion he hurled the package from
him in a long arch.

_Bang!_
