
The woman who faced me may have been as young as twenty-two, but
she didn't look it. That shocked look, which comes with the first
realization that youth has slipped quietly away downstream in the
middle of the night, and left nothing but frightening rocks of middle
age to show cold and gray in the hard light of dawn, was like the
validation stamp of Time itself in her wide, wise eyes. And her voice
wasn't young any more, either.

"Well? And what did I do now?"

"I beg your pardon?" I said.

"You're Mobile Security, aren't you? Or is that badge you're wearing
just something to cover a hole in your shirt?"

"Yes, I'm Security, but does it have to mean something?" I asked. "All
I did was knock on your door."

"I heard it." Her lips were curled slightly at one corner.

I worked up a smile for her and let her see it for a few seconds before
I answered: "As a matter of fact, I don't want to see _you_ at all. I
didn't know you lived here and I don't know who you are. I'm not even
interested in who you are. It's the little boy who just went in here
that I was interested in. The little Martian boy, I mean."

Her eyes spread as though somebody had put fingers on her lids at the
outside corners and then cruelly jerked them apart.

"Come in," she almost gasped.

I followed her. When I leaned back against the plain door, it closed
protestingly. I looked around. It wasn't much of a room, but then you
couldn't expect much of a room in a little ghost of a place like this.
A few knickknacks of the locality stood about on two tables and a
shelf, bits of rock with streak-veins of fused corundum; not bad if you
like the appearance of squeezed blood.

There were two chairs and a large table intended to match the chairs,
and a rough divan kind of thing made of discarded cratings which had
probably been hauled here from the International Spaceport, ten miles
to the West. In the back wall of the room was a doorway that led dimly
to somewhere else in the house. Nowhere did I see the little boy. I
looked once again at the woman.

"What about him?" she whispered.

Her eyes were still startled.

I smiled reassuringly. "Nothing, lady, nothing. I'm sorry I upset you.
I was just being nosy is all, and that's the truth of it. You see, the
little boy went by me a while ago and he was whistling. He whistles
remarkably well. I asked him what the name of the tune was and he told
me it was the 'Calm' from William Tell. He also told me his mother had
taught him."

Her eyes hadn't budged from mine, hadn't flickered. They might have
been bright, moist marbles glued above her cheeks.

She said one word only: "Well?"

"Nothing," I answered. "Except that Martians are supposed to be
tone-deaf, aren't they? It's something lacking in their sense of
hearing. So when I heard this little boy, and saw he was a Martian, and
when he told me his _mother_ had taught him--" I shrugged and laughed a
little. "Like I said before, I guess I got just plain nosy."

She nodded. "We agree on that last part."

Perhaps it was her eyes. Or perhaps it was the tone of her voice. Or
perhaps, and more simply, it was her attitude in general. But whatever
it was, I suddenly felt that, nosy or not, I was being treated shabbily.

"I would like to speak to the Martian lady," I said.

"There isn't any Martian lady."

"There _has_ to be, doesn't there?" I said it with little sharp
prickers on the words.

But she did, too: "_Does there?_"

I gawked at her and she stared back. And the stare she gave me was hard
and at the same time curiously defiant--as though she would dare me to
go on with it. As though she figured I hadn't the guts.

For a moment, I just blinked stupidly at her, as I had blinked stupidly
at the little boy when he told me his mother had taught him how to
whistle. And then--after what seemed to me a very long while--I slowly
tumbled to what she meant.

Her eyes were telling me that the little Martian boy wasn't a little
Martian boy at all, that he was cross-breed, a little chap who had a
Martian father and a human, Earthwoman mother.

It was a startling thought, for there just aren't any such mixed
marriages. Or at least I had thought there weren't. Physically,
spiritually, mentally, or by any other standard you can think of,
compared to a human male the Martian isn't anything you'd want around
the house.

I finally said: "So that is why he is able to whistle."

She didn't answer. Even before I spoke, her eyes had seen the correct
guess which had probably flashed naked and astounded in my own eyes.
And then she swallowed with a labored breath that went trembling down
inside her.

"There isn't anything to be ashamed of," I said gently. "Back on Earth
there's a lot of mixtures, you know. Some people even claim there's no
such thing as a pure race. I don't know, but I guess we all started
somewhere and intermarried plenty since."

She nodded. Somehow her eyes didn't look defiant any more.

"Where's his father?" I asked.

"H-he's dead."

"I'm sorry. Are you all right? I mean do you get along okay and
everything, now that...?"

I stopped. I wanted to ask her if she was starving by slow degrees and
needed help. Lord knows the careworn look about her didn't show it was
luxurious living she was doing--at least not lately.

"Look," I said suddenly. "Would you like to go home to Earth? I could
fix--"

But that was the wrong approach. Her eyes snapped and her shoulders
stiffened angrily and the words that ripped out of her mouth were not
coated with honey.

"Get the hell out of here, you fool!"

I blinked again. When the flame in her eyes suddenly seemed to grow
even hotter, I turned on my heel and went to the door. I opened it,
went out on the top slab step. I turned back to close the door--and
looked straight into her eyes.

She was crying, but that didn't mean exactly what it looked like it
might mean. Her right hand had the door edge gripped tightly and she
was swinging it with all the strength she possessed. And while I still
stared, the door slammed savagely into the casing with a shock that
jarred the slab under my feet, and flying splinters from the rotten
woodwork stung my flinching cheeks.

I shrugged and turned around and went down the steps. "And that is the
way it goes," I muttered disgustedly to myself. Thinking to be helpful
with the firewood problem, you give a woman a nice sharp axe and she
immediately puts it to use--on you.

I looked up just in time to avoid running into a spread-legged man who
was standing motionless directly in the middle of the sand-path in
front of the door. His hands were on his hips and there was something
in his eyes which might have been a leer.
