
"Pulled a howler in there, eh, mate?" he said. He chuckled hoarsely
in his throat. "Not being exactly deaf, I heard the tail end of it."
His chuckle was a lewd thing, a thing usually reserved--if it ever
was reserved at all--for the mens' rooms of some of the lower class
dives. And then he stopped chuckling and frowned instead and said
complainingly:

"Regular little spitfire, ain't she? I ask you now, wouldn't you think
a gal which had got herself in a little jam, so to speak, would be more
reasonable--"

His words chopped short and he almost choked on the final unuttered
syllable. His glance had dropped to my badge and the look on his face
was one of startled surprise.

"I--" he said.

I cocked a frown of my own at him.

"Well, so long, mate," he grunted, and spun around and dug his toes
in the sand and was away. I stood there staring at his rapidly
disappearing form for a few moments and then looked back once more at
the house. A tattered cotton curtain was just swinging to in the dirty,
sand-blown window. That seemed to mean the woman had been watching. I
sighed, shrugged again and went away myself.

When I got back to Security Headquarters, I went to the file and began
to rifle through pictures. I didn't find the woman, but I did find the
man.

He was a killer named Harry Smythe.

I took the picture into the Chief's office and laid it on his desk,
waited for him to look down at it and study it for an instant, and then
to look back up to me. Which he did.

"So?" he said.

"Wanted, isn't he?"

He nodded. "But a lot of good that'll do. He's holed up somewhere back
on Earth."

"No," I said. "He's right here. I just saw him."

"_What?_" He nearly leaped out of his chair.

"I didn't know who he was at first," I said. "It wasn't until I looked
in the files--"

He cut me off. His hand darted into his desk drawer and pulled out an
Authority Card. He shoved the card at me. He growled: "Kill or capture,
I'm not especially fussy which. Just _get_ him!"

I nodded and took the card. As I left the office, I was thinking of
something which struck me as somewhat more than odd.

I had idly listened to a little half-breed Martian boy whistling part
of the William Tell Overture, and it had led me to a wanted killer
named Harry Smythe.
