
Understandably, Mr. Smythe did not produce himself on a silver platter.
I spent the remainder of the afternoon trying to get a lead on him and
got nowhere. If he was hiding in any of the places I went to, then he
was doing it with mirrors, for on Mars an Authority Card is the big
stick than which there is no bigger. Not solely is it a warrant, it is
a commandeer of help from anyone to whom it is presented; and wherever
I showed it I got respect.

I got instant attention. I got even more: those wraithlike tremblings
in the darker corners of saloons, those corners where light never seems
quite to penetrate. You don't look into those. Not if you're anything
more than a ghoul, you don't.

Not finding him wasn't especially alarming. What was alarming, though,
was not finding the Earthwoman and her little half-breed Martian son
when I went back to the tumbledown shack where they lived. It was
empty. She had moved fast. She hadn't even left me a note saying
good-by.

That night I went into the Great Northern desert to the Haremheb
Reservation, where the Martians still try to act like Martians.

It was Festival night, and when I got there they were doing the dance
to the two moons. At times like this you want to leave the Martians
alone. With that thought in mind, I pinned my Authority Card to my
lapel directly above my badge, and went through the gates.

The huge circle fire was burning and the dance was in progress.
Briefly, this can be described as something like the ceremonial dances
put on centuries ago by the ancient aborigines of North America. There
was one important exception, however. Instead of a central fire, the
Martians dig a huge circular trench and fill it with dried roots of the
_belu_ tree and set fire to it. Being pitch-like, the gnarled fragments
burn for hours. Inside this ring sit the spectators, and in the exact
center are the dancers. For music, they use the drums.

The dancers were both men and women and they were as naked as Martians
can get, but their dance was a thing of grace and loveliness. For an
instant--before anyone observed me--I stood motionless and watched
the sinuously undulating movements, and I thought, as I have often
thought before, that this is the one thing the Martians can still do
beautifully. Which, in a sad sort of way, is a commentary on the way
things have gone since the first rocket-blasting ship set down on these
purple sands.

I felt the knife dig my spine. Carefully I turned around and pointed my
index finger to my badge and card. Bared teeth glittered at me in the
flickering light, and then the knife disappeared as quickly as it had
come.

"Wahanhk," I said. "The Chief. Take me to him."

The Martian turned, went away from the half-light of the circle. He led
me some yards off to the north to a swooping-tent. Then he stopped,
pointed.

"Wahanhk," he said.

I watched him slip away.

Wahanhk is an old Martian. I don't think any Martian before him has
ever lived so long--and doubtless none after him will, either. His
leathery, almost purple-black skin was rough and had a charred look
about it, and up around the eyes were little plaits and folds that had
the appearance of being done deliberately by a Martian sand-artist.

"Good evening," I said, and sat down before him and crossed my legs.

He nodded slowly. His old eyes went to my badge.

From there they went to the Authority Card.

"Power sign of the Earthmen," he muttered.

"Not necessarily," I said. "I'm not here for trouble. I know as well as
you do that, before tonight is finished, more than half of your men
and women will be drunk on illegal whiskey."

He didn't reply to that.

"And I don't give a damn about it," I added distinctly.

His eyes came deliberately up to mine and stopped there. He said
nothing. He waited. Outside, the drums throbbed, slowly at first, then
moderated in tempo. It was like the throbbing--or sobbing, if you
prefer--of the old, old pumps whose shafts go so tirelessly down into
the planet for such pitifully thin streams of water.

"I'm looking for an Earthwoman," I said. "This particular Earthwoman
took a Martian for a husband."

"That is impossible," he grunted bitterly.

"I would have said so, too," I agreed. "Until this afternoon, that is."

His old, dried lips began to purse and wrinkle.

"I met her little son," I went on. "A little semi-human boy with
Martian features. Or, if you want to turn it around and look at the
other side, a little Martian boy who whistles."

His teeth went together with a snap.

I nodded and smiled. "You know who I'm talking about."

For a long long while he didn't answer. His eyes remained unblinking on
mine and if, earlier in the day, I had thought the little boy's face
was expressionless, then I didn't completely appreciate the meaning of
that word. Wahanhk's face was more than expressionless; it was simply
blank.

"They disappeared from the shack they were living in," I said. "They
went in a hurry--a very great hurry."

That one he didn't answer, either.

"I would like to know where she is."

"Why?" His whisper was brittle.

"She's not in trouble," I told him quickly. "She's not wanted. Nor her
child, either. It's just that I have to talk to her."

"Why?"

I pulled out the file photo of Harry Smythe and handed it across to
him. His wrinkled hand took it, pinched it, held it up close to a lamp
hanging from one of the ridge poles. His eyes squinted at it for a long
moment before he handed it back.

"I have never seen this Earthman," he said.

"All right," I answered. "There wasn't anything that made me think you
had. The point is that he knows the woman. It follows, naturally, that
she might know him."

"This one is _wanted_?" His old, broken tones went up slightly on the
last word.

I nodded. "For murder."

"Murder." He spat the word. "But not for the murder of a Martian, eh?
Martians are not that important any more." His old eyes hated me with
an intensity I didn't relish.

"You said that, old man, not I."

A little time went by. The drums began to beat faster. They were
rolling out a lively tempo now, a tempo you could put music to.

He said at last: "I do not know where the woman is. Nor the child."

He looked me straight in the eyes when he said it--and almost before
the words were out of his mouth, they were whipped in again on a
drawn-back, great, sucking breath. For, somewhere outside, somewhere
near that dancing circle, in perfect time with the lively beat of the
drums, somebody was whistling.

It was a clear, clean sound, a merry, bright, happy sound, as sharp
and as precise as the thrust of a razor through a piece of soft yellow
cheese.

"In your teeth, Wahanhk! Right in your teeth!"

He only looked at me for another dull instant and then his eyes slowly
closed and his hands folded together in his lap. Being caught in a lie
only bores a Martian.

I got up and went out of the tent.
