
Next day I followed the little boy. He left the reservation in a cheery
frame of mind, his whistle sounding loud and clear on the thin morning
air. He didn't go in the direction of town, but the other way--toward
the ruins of the ancient Temple City of the Moons. I watched his chubby
arm and the swinging of the big butterfly net on the end of that arm.
Then I followed along in his sandy tracks.

It was desert country, of course. There wasn't any chance of tailing
him without his knowledge and I knew it. I also knew that before long
he'd know it, too. And he did--but he didn't let me know he did until
we came to the rag-cliffs, those filigree walls of stone that hide the
entrance to the valley of the two moons.

Once there, he paused and placed his butterfly net on a rock ledge and
then calmly sat down and took off his shoes to dump the sand while he
waited for me.

"Well," I said. "Good morning."

He looked up at me. He nodded politely. Then he put on his shoes again
and got to his feet.

"You've been following me," he said, and his brown eyes stared
accusingly into mine.

"I have?"

"That isn't an honorable thing to do," he said very gravely. "A
gentleman doesn't do that to another gentleman."

I didn't smile. "And what would you have me do about it?"

"Stop following me, of course, sir."

"Very well," I said. "I won't follow you any more. Will that be
satisfactory?"

"Quite, sir."

Without another word, he picked up his butterfly net and disappeared
along a path that led through a rock crevice. Only then did I allow
myself to grin. It was a sad and pitying and affectionate kind of grin.

I sat down and did with my shoes as he had done. There wasn't any
hurry; I knew where he was going. There could only be one place, of
course--the city of Deimos and Phobos. Other than that he had no
choice. And I thought I knew the reason for his going.

Several times in the past, there have been men who, bitten with the
fever of an idea that somewhere on this red planet there must be gold,
have done prospecting among the ruins of the old temples. He had
probably heard that there were men there now, and he was carrying out
with the thoroughness of his precise little mind the job he had set
himself of finding the killer of his daddy.

I took a short-cut over the rag-cliffs and went down a winding,
sand-worn path. The temple stones stood out barren and dry-looking,
like breast bones from the desiccated carcass of an animal. For a
moment I stopped and stared down at the ruins. I didn't see the boy. He
was somewhere down there, though, still swinging his butterfly net and,
probably, still whistling.

I started up once more.

And then I heard it--a shrill blast of sound in an octave of urgency; a
whistle, sure, but a warning one.

I stopped in my tracks from the shock of it. Yes, I knew from whom it
had come, all right. But I didn't know why.

And then the whistle broke off short. One instant it was in the air,
shrieking with a message. The next it was gone. But it left tailings,
like the echo of a death cry slowly floating back over the dead body of
the creature that uttered it.

I dropped behind a fragment of the rag-cliff. A shot barked out
angrily. Splinters of the rock crazed the morning air.

The little boy screamed. Just once.

I waited. There was a long silence after that. Then, finally, I took
off my hat and threw it out into the valley. The gun roared once more.
This time I placed it a little to the left below me. I took careful
sighting on the hand that held that gun--and I didn't miss it.

It was Harry Smythe, of course. When I reached him, he had the injured
hand tucked tightly in the pit of his other arm. There was a grim look
in his eyes and he nodded as I approached him.

"Good shooting, mate. Should be a promotion in it for you. Shooting
like that, I mean."

"That's nice to think about," I said. "Where's the boy? I owe him a
little something. If he hadn't whistled a warning, you could have
picked me off neat."

"I would." He nodded calmly.

"Where is he?"

"Behind the rock there. In that little alcove, sort of." He indicated
with his chin.

I started forward. I watched him, but I went toward the rock.

"Just a minute, mate."

I stopped. I didn't lower my gun.

"That bloody wench we spoke about yesterday. You know, out in front of
that shack? Well, just a thought, of course, but if you pull me in and
if I get _it_, what'll become of her, do you suppose? Mean to say, I
couldn't support her when I was dead, could I?"

"Support her?" Surprise jumped into my voice.

"What I said. She's my wife, you know. Back on Earth, I mean. I skipped
out on her a few years back, but yesterday I was on my way to looking
her up when you--"

"She didn't recognize the name Harry Smythe," I said coldly. "I'm
afraid you'll have to think a little faster."

"Of course she didn't! How could she? That ain't my name. What made you
think it was?"

Bright beads of sweat sparkled on his forehead, and his lips had that
frantic looseness of lips not entirely under control.

"You left her," I grunted. "But you followed her across space anyway.
Just to tell her you were sorry and you wanted to come back. Is that
it?"

"Well--" His eyes were calculating. "Not the God's honest, mate, no.
I didn't know she was here. Not at first. But there was this Spider,
see? This Martian. His name was Tahily and he used to hang around the
saloons and he talked a lot, see? Then's when I knew...."

"So it was you who killed him," I said. "One murder wasn't enough
back on Earth; you had to pile them up on the planets." I could feel
something begin to churn inside of me.

"Wait! Sure, I knocked off the Martian. But a fair fight, see? That
Spider jumped my claim. A fair fight it was, and anybody'd done the
same. But even without that, he had it coming anyway, wouldn't you
say? Bigamist and all that, you know? I mean marrying a woman already
married."

His lips were beginning to slobber. I watched them with revulsion in my
stomach.

"Wouldn't you say, mate? Just a lousy, stinking Martian, I mean!"

I swallowed. I turned away and went around the rock and looked down.
One look was enough. Blood was running down the cheek of the prone
little Martian boy, and it was coming from his mouth. Then I turned
back to the shaking man.

"Like I say, mate! I mean, what would you've done in my place?
Whistling always did drive me crazy. I can't stand it. A phobia, you
know. People _suffer_ from phobias!"

"What did you do?" I took three steps toward him. I felt my lips
straining back from my teeth.

"Wait now, mate! Like I say, it's a phobia. I can't stand whistling. It
makes me suffer--"

"So you cut out his tongue?"

I didn't wait for his answer. I couldn't wait. While I was still calm,
I raised my gun on his trembling figure. I didn't put the gun up again
until his body stopped twitching and his fingers stopped clawing in the
sands.
