
Even now the invaders from Andromeda were approaching the System's
outermost defenses; converging upon the virtually helpless garrisons
on Pluto. Patrol spacers off the frigid planet had already contacted
spearheads of the huge armada--with fatal results.

Once before the System had been periled by these devils from the
distant galaxy. Victory had been costly then, but the combined
Planetary fleets could not now hope to stave off the full force on this
new attack. They would have to yield space; fall back to more favorable
positions.

Trionite alone would prove the decisive factor in any war of worlds,
and the United Planets had not been able to learn the secret of
manufacturing the new explosive, one ton of which could wreck an
invading army.

As Roger Kay set the robot-course dial of his speedy helio for the
mining settlement, he switched in for a moment on Wargan's private
wave-band. "Leaving now, sir," he reported crisply. "Be there in two
hours. Any further instructions?"

"Do your best, Kay, that's all," came the weary voice of the S.B.I.
chief. "New reports in confirm the old ones. We expect the first blow
by noon Friday. Pluto is doomed; now being evacuated."

"We've got to stop them," Roger Kay said fiercely as he snapped the
switch. "We've just got to!"

He settled back to get in a much-needed two hours of sleep while the
robot pilot held his course.

The alarm bell awakened him, and he pointed the craft down under the
great red disk of Big Jupe, toward the low range of purple cliffs
indicated on his map.

A few minutes later he was knocking at the door of the dome-shaped
laboratory.

Ann North was twice as beautiful in the flesh as she had seemed on the
visi-screen. Attired in the modish shorts and tunic that had become
universal garb for Earth-women, she looked like a figure from a
Grecian frieze. She led him to the library.

"Dad's asleep at last," she said. "I persuaded him to rest for a few
hours--on the strength of my argument that he'd accomplish more in the
long run if he kept his brain clear."

Roger Kay nodded understandingly. "I just had a bit of sleep myself en
route. Nobody at headquarters has slept much the last few days. By the
way, I'm woefully in the dark about a lot of things. Will you tell me
just what your father's trying to re-discover? If you can enlighten me,
I'll not have to ask him so many darn-fool questions."

"You know, of course," said Ann North when they were comfortably
seated, "that it's a ray that will explode any explosive at a distance.
Or perhaps I shouldn't have said a ray--it's really a sound wave, in
the ultra-sonic belt, traveling on a beam. It disrupts any unstable
chemical compound."

Roger Kay nodded. "That much I know. I've examined one of the
projectors. We've installed them at all the outposts. They're all
ready, except--"

"Except for the catalyst. The part of the discovery that's lost in the
chemical compound that produces the catalytic gas. The ultra-sonic
waves, passing through the gas, change their vibration in some way."

"I see now," said Kay, "why it is directional. The ultra-sonic waves go
in all directions, of course, but only those passing through the gas
are disruptive. Right?"

The girl nodded her beautiful blond head. "It's all very simple, and
it's all in the hands of the government, except for the formula for
that catalyst. Fortunately my father has a reputation as a scientist.
That's why the government was willing to take a chance on having those
projectors set up, even though--"

Roger Kay smiled wryly. "Your father is the outstanding scientist of
the System, Miss North. But even if he wasn't, we might have taken
that chance. It's about the only chance. If he fails, three days from
today--"

"As bad as that?"

"I'm afraid so. But let's not talk about it. One thing I don't know:
How was the formula lost?"

"Dad destroyed it. He discovered it accidentally twenty years ago,
while working on something else. Never thinking that the fate of
worlds might hinge upon it, he destroyed his notes almost as soon as he
had made them. He's always been awfully opposed to war, you know, and
he saw the terrible possibilities in the weapon if it should fall into
the wrong hands."

"That is still true," said a quiet voice from the doorway. Roger Kay
recognized Corvo North at once from the many photographs he had seen.
He rose and offered his hand.

"I'm glad you're here, Mr. Kay," said the scientist. "Ann told me you
were coming. Yes, it's still true that I'm opposed to war--but this
isn't war. Even disregarding personal interests and patriotism, it's an
attempt to save the human race. Come on into the laboratory. We've no
time to waste."
