
Roger whistled softly under his breath as Corvo North closed the door
behind them. The laboratory, spacious and well equipped, was a research
worker's dream.

The scientist led the way past rows of pieces of apparatus whose
purpose Roger could but dimly guess, to a table at the far end of the
room. Upon the table was a small box bristling with dials. The back and
top were open, showing a maze of wires and coils and condensers.

"Looks like a radio set with hydrophobia," Roger observed. "What
connection has this with the catalyst formula?"

"Nothing, directly. There's no chance, through experimentation, of my
recovering that formula in time. Three years, possibly. Three days,
never."

"You mean that it's hopeless to try? That the System is lost?" Roger
Kay was appalled.

"I don't quite mean that," said North. "But what chance there is lies
through this apparatus you're looking at now. Sit down; I'll explain
while I work. You can help later, when I've explained the machine."

He began to tinker amidst the maze of wires.

"My discovery of trionite was purely accidental. It was empiric;
not based on any theory. There were six or seven chemicals, and I
recall the identity of only two of them. The others? Well, count the
chemicals in the pharmacopoeia! The only way I could re-discover it
would be by accident as I did before--and that would involve too many
experiments and too much time. But the formula is buried somewhere in
my subconscious mind. I _might_ remember it."

Roger Kay eyed the box with some misgivings. "You mean this is--"

"The memory of everything we've ever done or seen is latent in our
minds--in the molecular structure of the brain. Almost, I might say, in
concentric layers. When the present crisis arose, I had been studying
the human brain and the nature of thought and memory. Do you follow me?"

He looked up from his work and as Roger nodded, he saw how haggard and
weary was the face of the elderly scientist.

"Consciousness is basically electrical in nature. The act of memory is
the shift of that electrical impulse back to a buried stratum of the
brain. But the shift is never complete; most of the consciousness stays
in the present. We never remember anything perfectly."

"Then this machine is to--"

"To create a magnetic field of such a nature as to shift the
consciousness _as a whole_. By shifting the magnetic field's intensity,
I can move back the consciousness, or memory, to complete remembrance
of any given moment of the past. In other words, under its influence,
I hope to send back my memory to the moment when I jotted down the
formula. Earlier or later won't do; I didn't memorize it at any time."

His interest completely gripped, Roger Kay stared into the intricate
mechanism. "But, sir," he asked, "do you know the exact time that
was--down to the minute?"

"Fortunately, yes. I recall that it was the day Ann was being given a
party for her third birthday. My wife had told me to be home at three
o'clock in the afternoon. I was a little late--didn't leave the lab
until on the stroke of three, and it was two or three minutes before
then that I wrote down the formula."

"And you think you can hit that exact moment?"

"With a couple of preliminary experiments, yes. If I find that given
setting of the dial and the vernier adjustments give me a certain date
and time of day, I can calculate the proper adjustment for the time I
want."

"Amazing!" exclaimed Roger. "Frankly, if it weren't for the wonderful
things you've accomplished in other fields, I'd say it was visionary."

Corvo North shook his gray head. "The theory is sound; it should work.
But three days! Man, we're working against a deadly deadline!" He
grabbed a pad and pencil. "Here, I'll show you what to do and you can
start on the headpiece that connects to the machine here."
