
And thus started the busiest, dizziest hours of Roger Kay's life.
Sleep was a chimera that haunted every leaden-eyed hour, a mirage that
beckoned and pleaded in vain.

And the hands of the laboratory clock crept inexorably onward. At three
in the morning on Friday, Terran time, with nine hours left before the
invaders would strike, Kay staggered to the televis and dialed Wargan.

"I think we'll finish in time," he reported. "We'll be ready for the
first test in a couple of hours. Have you made the preparations we
suggested?"

The S.B.I. chief nodded. "At the base of each projector we've installed
practically a chemical warehouse. There is at least a small quantity of
every available known chemical. And expert chemists waiting at each."

"Good. Then within fifteen minutes after I send you the formula, the
projectors can be in operation?"

"Ten minutes, unless the formula is more complex than you believe. You
say that Corvo North believes there are but six or seven ingredients?"

Roger Kay nodded wearily. "And the communications?"

"Open constantly. An operator on duty at each projector at all times.
Test messages going through every fifteen minutes. Incidentally, latest
reports still confirm early ones. The deadline is still noon today."

Roger Kay saluted, then snapped the switch. Back to work at the little
box in the laboratory.

During those last hours, as well as the ones preceding them, Ann North
had been a ministering angel. Sleeping almost as little as the two
men, she was ever ready with encouragement--and hot coffee. At times,
almost by force, she would pry one or the other of them away from their
work for a brief period of rest.

On her own initiative she had called in Dr. Dane. Once he understood
the situation, the doctor was invaluable. He took no part in the work
on the machine, but he watched over Corvo North constantly and kept him
at the highest point of efficiency under the circumstances.

Ten o'clock came--and ten-thirty--and they were ready for the
preliminary test.

As he placed the metal plates on his head with shaking hands, Corvo
North seemed a mere shell of his former self.

Roger Kay sat at the controls. At North's instructions they ran the
wires to an easy chair several yards away, as they were uncertain just
how far the magnetic field would extend beyond the headset.

"Better tie me to the chair," North cautioned. "When the field is
thrown on, I'll have no recollection of the present or why I'm here.
Don't forget that. Until you bring me back by setting the dials to
zero, mentally, I'll be back where I was whatever time we hit upon.
It will seem to me that I'm waking suddenly in utterly strange
circumstances and surroundings. You know what questions to ask, of
course."

"Yes, Mr. North," said Roger. He turned to Dr. Dane. "Will you
attend to the tying? Just sufficiently so that he can't rise in his
bewilderment."

Ann North brought straps, and a few moments later Corvo North nodded
that he was ready; then leaned his head back and closed his eyes.

Roger Kay glanced at the instruments and then shifted two of the dials.
There was a sudden hum from within the box, and Corvo North's eyes
snapped open.

"What--what is this?" he demanded. "Why am I here?"

"Everything's all right, Mr. North," said Roger soothingly. "We'll
release you in a moment. First please tell us what is the date."

"It's January twelfth, of course. Why do you--"

"And the year?"

"Twenty forty-five. Now will you kindly--"

"Just one more question, Mr. North. Do you know the exact time of day
when you awoke here?"

"How can I when I don't know how I got here? The last thing I remember
is walking through the door of the bank to keep my appointment, at
nine. What's happened? Did I faint?"

A glow of satisfaction lodged itself in Roger's mind; they were getting
the time more accurately than he'd dared expect on the first trial. He
pushed his luck a bit farther.

"Were you on time to make that appointment, Mr. North?"

"I'd have been five minutes early. Now will you--"

"Perfect!" exclaimed Roger. He turned back the dials.

Corvo North went limp for an instant, then reopened his eyes. Dr. Dane
rushed to him and unbuckled the straps.

"Get anything?" asked the scientist weakly.

"Perfect!" said Roger again. "I've got a note of the exact
setting--and you were able to give the time exactly." He scribbled
hasty calculations on the pad. "And that setting took you back to
January of Twenty forty-five. To be exact--six thousand seven hundred
twenty-eight days, twenty-seven hours, seven minutes!"

Corvo North nodded weakly, but excitedly tried to rise. Dr. Dane, his
hand on North's pulse, motioned him back.

"That was a tremendous strain on your heart, North," he cautioned. "I
forbid you to do it again until you've rested."

"Absurd!" Corvo North glanced at the clock. "There isn't time! It's
eleven now!"

"Repeat that again right away and you'll never live to report what you
see," warned the physician solemnly. "Half an hour of rest--or the
entire experiment will be in vain."
