
Suddenly the scientist's eyes snapped opened, widened with terror and
bewilderment. With a movement so swift that no one could stop him, he
ripped the sheet of paper from the pad, crumpled it, and hurled it at
the glowing coil of an electric heater!

The paper flashed into flame, crumpled into ash as Corvo North himself
crumpled, went limp in the chair.

Roger Kay turned the dials back to zero as Ann and the doctor leaped
forward, unstrapped the unconscious scientist. Dr. Dane felt the
fluttering pulse, then picked up the frail body and headed for the
living quarters. Ann, her blue eyes wide with anxiety, ran ahead to
open doors and prepare for the doctor's ministrations.

When she returned, Roger Kay stood before the visi-screen. Ann put a
hand on his shoulder. "Dad will be all right," she said, her voice flat
with despair, "but we've failed. Dr. Dane says it will be days before
he'd dare--"

"Shh," said Roger gently. "Watch." He slipped his left arm around her
slim waist, drew her to toward the screen.

The vista past the purple range showed at once that the view was
eastward from the spaceport. There was no shipping in sight. In the red
sky, far out and very high, was a thin silvery line, growing larger.

"The invaders." Unconsciously, Roger Kay whispered rather than spoke.
"A thousand spheres at least for us alone. Watch, in a moment we'll
know."

"Know what, Roger? Do you mean--"

The visi-screen answered for him. Out there high up in the sky there
was a single bright flash--and then a thousand flashes that blended
into one blinding one. A roar from the receiver rose to deafening
pitch, stopped abruptly.

[Illustration: _"Shh," said Roger gently. "Watch." He drew her to the
screen._]

"Shattered the diaphragm of the transmitter," said Roger quietly. "That
was trionite in action, Ann, it's all over. Your father--won!"

"But the formula! He destroyed it!"

Roger Kay put his other arm about her, smiled down. "That was why I was
sent here, Ann. To eliminate possible hitches."

"But how--"

"Your father destroyed the formula the first time, and I guessed he
might do it again--in his mind he was back some twenty years ago,
remember--so I took the elementary precaution of placing carbon paper
between the third and fourth sheets of that pad of paper. And I sent
Wargan the formula while you were with your father, twelve minutes ago."



