
It took time--several days--but Parr got over his first revulsion at the
bestial traits of his new companions. After all, in shedding the wit and
grace of man, they were recovering the honest simplicity of animals. For
instance, Ling was not malicious about being displaced, as Shanklin had
been. Too, there was much more real mutual helpfulness, if not so much
talk about it. When one of the horde found a new crop of berries or
roots or nuts, he set up a yell for his friends to come and share. A
couple of oldsters, doddering and incompetent gargoyles, were fed and
cared for by the younger beast-men. And all stood ready to obey Parr's
slightest word or gesture.

Thus, though it was a new thought to them, several went exploring with
him to the north pole of their world. The journey was no more than
fifteen miles, but took them across grassy, foodless plains which had
never been worth negotiation. Parr chose Ling and another comparatively
intelligent specimen who called himself Ruba. Izak, the mild-mannered
one who had first met and guided Parr on the night of his banishment
from the human village, also pleaded to go. Several others would have
joined the party, but the deterioration of legs and feet made them poor
walkers. The four went single file--Parr, then big Ling, then Ruba, then
Izak. Each carried, on a vine sling, a leaf-package of fruit and a melon
for quenching thirst. They also carried clubs.

The plain was well-grassed, as high as Ling's knuckled knee.
Occasionally small creatures hopped or scuttled away. The beast-men
threw stones until Parr told them to stop--he could not help but wonder
if those scurriers had once been men. The hot sun made him sweat under
his plate-armor, but not for all the Solar System would he have laid it
aside.

They paused for noonday lunch in a grove of ferny trees beyond the
plain, then scaled some rough lava-like rocks. In the early afternoon
they came to what must be the asteroid's northern pole.

Like most of the asteroids, this was originally jagged and irregular.
Martian engineers in fitting it artificially to support life, had roughed
it into a sphere and pulverized quantities of the rock into soil. Here,
at the apex, was a ring of rough naked hills enclosing a pit into which
the sun could not look. Ling, catching up with Parr on the brow of the
circular range, pointed with his great club.

"Look like mouth of world," he hazarded. "Dark. Maybe world hungry--eat
us."

"Maybe," agreed Parr. The pit, about a hundred yards across and full of
shadow, looked forbidding enough to be a savage maw. Izak also came
alongside.

"Mouth?" he repeated after Ling. "Mmm! Look down. Men in there."

There was a movement, sure enough, and a flare of something--a torch of
punky wood. Izak was right. Men were inside this polar depression.

"Come on," said Parr at once, and began to scramble down the steep,
gloomy inner slope. Ling grimaced, but followed lest his companions
think him afraid. Ruba and Izak, who feared to be left behind, stayed
close to his heels.

The light of the torch flared more brightly. Parr could make out figures
in its glow--two of them. The torch itself was wedged in a crack of the
rock, and beneath its flame the couple seemed to tug and wrench at
something that gleamed darkly, like a great metal toadstool at the
bottom of the depression. So engrossed were the workers that they did
not notice Parr and his companions, and Parr, drawing near, had time to
recognize both.

One was Sadau, who would have remained his friend. The other was Varina
Pemberton. In the torchlight she looked browner and more vigorous than
when he had seen her last.

"What are you doing?" he called to them.

Abruptly they both snapped erect and looked toward him. Sadau seized the
torch and whirled it on high, shedding light. Varina Pemberton peered at
the newcomers.

"Oh," she said, "it's you. Parr. Well, get out of here."

Parr stood his ground, studying the toadstool-thing they had been
laboring over. It was a wheel-like disk of metal, set upon an axle that
sprouted from the floor of rock. By turning it, they could finish
opening a great rock-faced panel near by....

"Get out," repeated the girl, with a hard edge on her voice.

Parr felt himself grow angry. "Take it easy," he said. "Your crowd
booted me out, and I'm not under your rule any more. Neither can this be
said to be your country. We've as much right here as you."

"Four of us," added Ruba with threatening logic. "Two of you. Fight,
uh?"

"Parr," said Sadau, "do as Miss Pemberton tells you. Leave here."

"And if I don't?" temporized Parr, who felt the eagerness of his
beast-men for some sort of a skirmish.

Varina Pemberton took something from her belt and pointed it. A brittle
report resounded--_whick_! And an electro-automatic pellet exploded
almost between Parr's feet, digging a hole in the rock. He jumped back.
So did his three comrades, from whose memories had not faded the
knowledge of firearms.

"The next shot," she warned, "will be a little higher and more carefully
placed. Get out, and don't come back."

"They win," said Parr. "Come on, boys."

They retired to the upper combing of rock, with the sun at their backs.
There Parr motioned them into hiding behind jagged boulders. Time
passed, several hours of it. Finally they saw Sadau and Varina Pemberton
depart on the other side of the hole.

"Good," rumbled Ling. "We follow. Sneak up. Grab. Kill."

"Not us," Parr ruled. "No war against women, Ling. But we'll go down
where they were working, and see what it's all about."

They groped their way down again. At the bottom of the pit-valley they
found the metal projection, so like a mighty steering wheel. Sadau's
torch lay there, extinguished, and Parr still carried a radium lighter
in the pocket of his shabby shorts. He made a light, and looked.

The big panel or rock, that had been half-open, was closed. As for the
wheel, it had been bent and jammed, by powerful blows with a rock. He
could not budge it, nor could the mighty Ling, nor could all of them
together.

"They were inside this asteroid," decided Parr, half to himself. "Down
where the Martians planted the artificial gravity-machinery. Having been
there, they fixed things so nobody will follow them. Only blasting rays
could open up a way, and those would probably wreck the mechanism and
send air, water and exiles all flying into space. All this she did.
Why?"

"Why what?" asked Izak, not comprehending.

"Yes, why what?" repeated Parr. "I can only guess, Izak, and none of my
guesses have been worth much lately. Let's go home, and keep an eye
peeled on our neighbors."
