
The Martians had come again--the same space-patroller, repaired, and
twice as many hands and a new skipper. They carried no Terrestrial
exile--for once their errand was different.

Four of them, harnessed into erect human posture, armed and armored,
stood around the evening fire in the central clearing of the village now
ruled by Varina Pemberton. The skipper was being insistent, but not
particularly deadly.

"We rrecognize that fourr dead among you will ssettle forr one dead
Marrtian," he told the gathered exiles. "The morre sso ass you assurre
me that the man rressponssible hass been drriven frrom among you. But we
make one demand--the arrmorr taken frrom the body of the dead Marrtian."

"I am sorry about that," the chieftainess replied from her side. "We
didn't know that you valued it. If we get it back for you--"

"Ssuch action would rreflect favorrably upon you," nodded the Martian
skipper. "Get the arrmorr again, and we will rrefrrain frrom punitive
meassurress."

"Why do you want that armor so much?" inquired Shanklin boldly. He
himself had never thought of it as worth much. He was more satisfied to
have the knife, which he now hid behind him lest the Martians see and
claim. But the skipper only shook his petalled skull.

"It iss no prroblem of yourrss," he snubbed Shanklin. And, to Varina
Pemberton: "What time sshall we grrant you? A day? Two dayss?... Come
before the end of that time and rreporrt to me at the patrrol vessel."

He turned and led his followers back toward the plain where the ship was
parked.

Night had well fallen, and silence hung about the vessel. Only a
rectangle of soft light showed the open hatchway. The Martian officer
led the way thither, ducked his head, entered--

Powerful hairy hands caught and overpowered him. Before he could collect
himself for resistance, other hands had disarmed him and were dragging
him away. His three companions, narrowly escaping the same fate, fell
back and drew their guns and ray throwers. A voice warned them sharply:

"Don't fire, any of you. We've got your friends in here, and we've taken
their electro-automatics. Give us the slightest reason, and we'll wipe
them out first--you second."

"Who arre you?" shrilled one of the Martians, lowering his weapon.

"My name's Fitzhugh Parr," came back the grim reply. "You framed me into
this exile--it's going to prove the worst day's work you Martian
flower-faces ever did. Not a move, any of you! The ship's mine, and I'm
going to take off at dawn."

The three discomfited hands tramped away again. Inside the control room,
Parr spoke to his shaggy followers, who grinned and twinkled like so
many gnomes doing mischief.

"They won't dare rush us," he said, "but two of you--Ling and Izak--stay
at the door with those guns. Dead sure you can still use 'em?... You,
Ruba, come here to the controls. You say you once flew space-craft."

Ruba's broad, coarse hand ruffled the bushy hair that grew on his almost
browless head. "Once," he agreed dolefully. "Now I--many thing I don't
remember." His face, flat-nosed and blubber-lipped, grew bleak and
plaintive as he gazed upon instruments he once had mastered.

"You'll remember," Parr assured him vehemently. "I never flew anything
but a short-shot pleasure cruiser, but I'm beginning to dope things out.
We'll help each other, Ruba. Don't you want to get away from here, go
home?"

"Home!" breathed Ruba, and the ears of the others--pointed, some of
those ears, and all of them hairy--pricked up visibly at that word.

"Well, there you are," Parr said encouragingly. "Sweat your brains, lad.
We've got until dawn. Then away we go."

"You will never manage," slurred the skipper from the corner where the
Martian captives, bound securely, sprawled under custody of a beast-man
with a lever bar for a club. "Thesse animalss have not mental powerr--"

"Shut up, or I'll let that guard tap you," Parr warned him. "They had
mental power enough to fool you all over the shop. Come on, Ruba. Isn't
this the rocket gauge? Please remember how it operates!"

The capture of the ship had been easy, so easy. The guard had been well
kept only until the skipper and his party had gone out of sight toward
the human village. Nobody ever expected trouble from beast-men, and the
watch on board had not dreamed of a rush until they were down and
secure. But this--the rationalization of intricate space-machinery--was
by contrast a doleful obstacle. "Please remember," Parr pleaded with
Ruba again.

And so for hours. And at last, prodded and cajoled and bullied, the
degenerated intelligence of Ruba had partially responded. His clumsy
paws, once so skilful, coaxed the mechanism into life. The blasts
emitted preliminary belches. The whole fabric of the ship quivered, like
a sleeper slowly wakening.

"Can you get her nose up, Ruba?" Parr found himself able to inquire at
last.

"Huh, boss," spoke Ling from his watch at the door. "Come. I see white
thing."

Parr hurried across to look.

The white thing was a tattered shirt, held aloft on a stick. From the
direction of the village came several figures, Martian and Terrestrial.
Parr recognized the bearer of the flag of truce--it was Varina
Pemberton. With her walked the three Martian hands whom he had warned
off, their tentacles lifted to ask for parley, their weapons sheathed at
their belts. Sadau was there, and Shanklin.

"Ready, guns," Parr warned Ling and Izak. "Stand clear of us, out
there!" he yelled. "We're going to take off."

"Fitzhugh Parr," called back Varina Pemberton, "you must not."

"Oh, must I not?" he taunted her. "Who's so free with her orders? I've
got a gun myself this time. Better keep your distance."

The others stopped at the warning, but the girl came forward. "You
wouldn't shoot a woman," she announced confidently. "Listen to me."

Parr looked back to where Ruba was fumbling the ship into more definite
action. "Go on and talk," he bade her. "I give you one minute."

"You've got to give up this foolish idea," she said earnestly. "It can't
succeed--even if you take off."

"No if about it. We're doing wonders. Make your goodbyes short. I wish
you joy of this asteroid, ma'am."

"Suppose you do get away," she conceded. "Suppose, though it's a small,
crowded ship, you reach Earth and land safely. What then?"

"I'll blow the lid off this dirty Martian Joke," he told her. "Exhibit
these poor devils, to show what the Martians do to Terrestrials they
convict. And then--"

"Yes, and then!" she cut in passionately. "Don't you see, Parr?
Relations between Mars and Earth are at breaking point now. They have
been for long. The Martians are technically within their rights when
they dump us here, but you'll be a pirate, a thief, a fugitive from
justice. You can cause a break, perhaps war. And for what?"

"For getting away, for giving freedom to my only friends on this
asteroid," said Parr.

"Freedom?" she repeated. "You think they can be free on Earth? Can they
face their wives or mothers as they are now--no longer men?"

"Boss," said Ling suddenly and brokenly, "she tell true. No. I won't go
home."

It was like cold water, that sudden rush of ghastly truth upon Parr. The
girl was right. His victory would be the saddest of defeats. He looked
around him at the beast-men who had placed themselves under his
control--what would happen to them on Earth? Prison? Asylum? _Zoo_?...

"Varina Pemberton," he called, "I think you win."

The hairy ones crowded around him, sensing a change in plan. He spoke
quickly:

"It's all off, boys. Get out, one at a time, and rush away for cover.
Nobody will hurt you--and we'll be no worse off than we were." He raised
his voice again: "If I clear out, will we be left alone?"

"You must give back that armor," she told him. "The Martians insist."

"It's a deal." He stripped the stuff from him and threw it across the
floor to lie beside the bound prisoners. "I'm trusting you, Varina
Pemberton!" he shouted. "We're getting out."

They departed at his orders, all of them. Ling and Izak went last,
dropping the stolen guns they had held so unhandily. Parr waited for all
of them to be gone, then he himself left the ship.

At once bullets began to whicker around him. He dodged behind the ship,
then ran crookedly for cover. By great good luck, he was not hit. His
beast-men hurried to him among the bushes.

"Huh, boss?" they asked anxiously. "Ship no good? What we do?"

He looked over his shoulder. Somewhere in the night enemies hunted for
him. The beast-folk were beneath contempt, would be left alone. Only he
had shown himself too dangerous to be allowed life.

"Goodbye, boys," he said, with real regret. "I'm not much of a boss if I
bring bullets among you. Get back home, and let me haul out by myself. I
mean it," he said sternly, as they hesitated. "On your way, and don't
get close to me again--death's catching!"

They tramped away into the gloom, with querulous backward looks. Parr
took a lonely trail in an opposite direction. After a moment he paused,
tingling with suspense. Heavy feet were following him.

"Who's coming?" he challenged, and ducked to avoid a possible shot. None
came. The heavy tread came nearer.

"Boss!" It was Ling.

"I told you to go away," reminded Parr gruffly.

"I not go," Ling retorted. "You no make me."

"Ling, you were boss before I came. Now that I'm gone from you--"

"You not gone from me. You my boss. Those others, they maybe pick new
boss."

"Ling, you fool!" Parr put out a hand in the night, and grabbed a mighty
shaggy arm. "I'll be hunted--maybe killed--"

"Huh!" grunted Ling. "They hunt us, maybe they get killed." He turned
and spat over his shoulder, in contempt for all marauding Martians and
their vassal Earth folk. "You, me--we stay together, boss."

"Come on, then," said Parr. "Ling, you're all right."

"Good talk!" said Ling.
