
Other uniformed men--hands of the Terrestrial Space Fleet--were coming
into view from among the boughs. They, too, were armed. Ling walked
across to Parr, a struggling captive under each arm.

"What are these strangers up to, boss?" he demanded. "Say the word and
I'll wring that officer's neck. I never liked officers, anyway."

"Wait," Parr bade him. Then, to the man called Captain Worrall: "Just
what are you doing here?"

"This asteroid," replied Worrall, "is now Terrestrial territory. We're
fortifying it against the Martians. War was declared three weeks ago,
and we made rocket-tracks for this little crumb. It's an ideal base for
a flanking attack."

Parr scowled. "You're fortifying?" he repeated. "Well, you'd better shag
out of here. There's a power--not working just now, but--"

"No fear of that," Varina Pemberton told him. She was smiling.

"I can explain best by starting at the start. Recently we got a report
of what the Martians were doing out here. We realized that Earth must
take care of her own, these poor devils who were being pushed back into
animalism. Also, with war inevitable--"

"You aren't starting at the start," objected Parr. "Where do you fit
into all this? You're no soldier."

"Oh, but she is," Captain Worrall said, offering Parr a cigarette from a
platinum case. "She's a colonel of intelligence--high ranking. Wonderful
job you've done, Colonel Pemberton."

She took up the tale again: "If the reverse-evolution power could be
destroyed, this artificially habitable rock in space would be a great
prize for our navy to capture. So I took a big chance--got myself framed
to a charge of Murder on Mars, and was the first woman ever sent here. I
knew fairly accurately when war would break out, and figured I had
months to do my work in. That captured armor gave me the clue."

"All I knew was that it gave off a vibration," nodded Parr.

"Exactly. Which meant that the evolution-reverse was vibratory, too. I
confided in Sadau, and he and I pieced the rest of the riddle together.
The vibrator would be inside, where nobody would venture for fear of
jamming the gravity-core--but we ventured--"

"And shut it off!" cried Parr.

"More than that. We reversed it, started it again at top speed to cause
a recovery from the degeneration process. Clever, these Martians--they
fix it so you can shuttle to and fro in development. Already the higher
beast-men are back to normal, like Rupert there, and the others will be
all right, soon."

"You had every right to chase me off at the end of a pistol," said Parr.
"I might have gummed the works badly."

"You nearly did that anyway," Varina Pemberton accused. "Fighting,
raiding, stirring up the Martians who might have put a crimp in my plans
any moment--but, being the type you are, you couldn't do otherwise. I
recognized that when I gave you the protective armor."

He gazed at her. "Why didn't you keep it for yourself?"

"No," and she shook her tawny head. "I figured to win or lose very
promptly. But you, armored against degeneration, might live after me and
be an awful problem to the Martians. Remember, I didn't make you give it
back until I had done what I came to do."

Worrall spoke again: "Colonel, these exiles must stay until all effects
of the degeneration influence is gone. They'll figure as civilians, with
colonists' rights. That means they must have a governor, to cooperate
with the military garrison. Will that be you?"

Shanklin dared to speak: "I am chief--"

"Arrest that man," the girl told two space-hands. "No, Captain. But I'm
senior officer, and I'll make an appointment. By far the best fitted
person for the governorship is Fitzhugh Parr."

The other exiles had pressed close to listen. Sadau, the diplomatic, at
once set up a cheer. Ling added his own loyal bellow, and the others
joined in. Parr's ears burned with embarrassment.

"Have it your way," he said to them all. "We'll live here, get normal,
and help all we can. But first, what have we to eat? We've got guests."

"No, governor, you're the guest of the garrison," protested Captain
Worrall. "Come aboard my ship yonder. I'll lend you a uniform, and
you'll preside at the head of the table tonight."

"Varina Pemberton," Parr addressed the girl who had caused so much
trouble and change on the little world of exile, "will you come and sit
at my right hand there?"

"A pleasure," she smiled, and put her arm through his.

Everybody cheered again, and both Parr and the girl blushed.



