
On the southern tip of the land continent where I discovered Prime,
still near the ocean, I found him surrounded with a growth which he
called vegetation. Then he bade me examine the content of the salt
water, and I beheld tiny aquatic creatures of many varieties, some
active, some vegetative, but all reproducing with lusty prolificity.

"What are these land growths?" I asked.

He proudly replied, "I call them _lichens_ and _mosses_."

"But how do they absorb energy from your sun?"

"I have invented a complex compound which can accomplish this," he
said. "I call it _chlorophyll_. But you have many more surprises in
store for you," he warned. "Wait until your next visit."

I was entranced, but his work appeared still to be no more than an
oddity, so I let it pass.

Prime was quite right. On my next visit he showed me his crowning
achievement. He called it _animal life_, a division of his so-called
_organic_ creations.

Here he departed almost entirely from our known concept of life-forms.
Prime's animals maintained life, or at least a convincing simulation
thereof, by ingesting other organic life-forms, both vegetative and
animal, and through an awkward procedure of digestion and devious,
chemical transformations, generated an interior source of energy.

What almost made me report the whole affair at that time was this
innovation: Prime's animal life-forms now existed entirely independent
of direct radiant energy! Instead, they substituted, of all things,
heat-energy, gained from simple oxidation of various so-called organic
compounds.

At this point I asked a question to which Prime gave me a very
revealing answer. I asked, "How do you define the term, 'organic
compound'?"

He lay there in the sun, flash--his iridescence at me in brilliant
sparkles from his random facets and announced in a haughty manner:
"Organic pertains to any carbon-containing life-form, of which I am the
originator, of course."

Now I understood a part of the immensity of Prime's egotism. In
devising his own life-form he built it around his own element in which
Terra abounds, largely in the gaseous dioxide compound.

I presumed that Prime had attempted to pass on the great Charter of
Life to the non-crystalline forms of carbon about him, and, failing
that, he enlisted the other elements in combination with carbon to
produce his desired end.

Imagine such circuity, though! Substituting heat-energy for light as
the basic life-fuel!

I was no longer amused. Inflated by his success, his over-bearing
self-esteem began to rankle a bit. "What," I asked, "of self-awareness?
Your life-forms are quite pointless if you fail to stimulate
self-awareness in them."

"I agree," he said promptly. "It would be futile to create life without
self-determination. You have returned a little too early to see the
end of my experiment," he said. "On your next visit I will reveal the
purpose of my whole project."

Rather than file a premature estimate of the affair, I held my notes
and accepted Prime's challenge to wait and see. Had I insisted at that
time on knowing his intentions, I might have had the wisdom to restrain
him, but then again who could have anticipated what happened? Not even
Prime, himself, realized that his life-form would get out of hand the
way it did.
