
On my final trip to Terra I had an extremely difficult time locating
Prime. His emanations were so weak as to be almost indistinguishable
in the screaming ruck of sensations that met my startled perceptions.

Part of my difficulty was the fact that the whole planet reeked with
noxious nuclear-type radiation that made long-range communication with
Prime virtually impossible. When I finally found him he was imprisoned
in the grip of a gold setting on a ring-like artifact worn by a
decomposing life-form.

"I am quite happy to see you," Prime greeted me with the first note of
welcome I had ever received from him.

"Is this grotesque cadaver your wonderful life-form that you promised?"
I jeered at him. Then I noticed that Prime's surface had been chipped
into geometrically precise facets of ingenious angles which would
enable him to make maximum use of light absorption--were it not for the
fact that his entire surface was charred with a coating of oxidation
such as would occur after exposure to excessive heat.

It was this near-opacity of his outer surface that had reduced Prime to
his weakened condition.

"If you will be so good as to assist me to remove the char from my
skin, I will proceed with a very important mission," he said.

Looking about me at the evidence of an advanced mechanico-primitive
civilization, recently devastated by apparent atomic disruption, I
demanded, "What is this important mission?"

"To destroy the one remaining _human_ on Terra."

"What might a human be?" I countered.

"The appendage to which you find my gold setting attached belonged to a
living human at one time. Perfection of this animal was the goal toward
which I was striving on your last visit."

I began removing the charred coating from Prime questioning him
further. "Did you succeed in developing self-awareness in your human
life-form?"

"Completely," he replied with a note of subdued triumph. "Much too
successfully, in fact."

And then he related the true purpose of his whole project. It seems
that, through the ages, Prime and his fellow diamonds brought a most
complicated life-form into being by a rather trial-and-error process of
evolution. By psychokinesis they instilled a system of reproduction and
heredity dependent upon bio-chemical devices he called _chromosomes_.
These were composed of tinier units, or _genes_, which were easily
manipulated to change any given strain.

In such a manner Prime and his fellows evolved this human life-form,
and if I may say so, the most was made of the animal potentialities
I first witnessed on the beach. The human model was a bi-symmetrical
biped with two upper appendages which terminated in clever,
five-fingered vises. These latter accounted for the complex artifacts
with which Terra was strewn.

Prime proudly helped me dissect one of the dead creatures, and I
believe what struck me most was the plumbing. Visualize, if you can, a
closed system of nutrient fluid, called _blood_, circulating through
100,000 miles (see enclosed equivalent chart) of semi-flexible conduit
arranged in an exceedingly complex network. This blood is held at
precisely 98.4 degrees Fahrenheit (see chart) in spite of widely
varying exterior temperatures. But most fantastic is the pump which
makes a complete circulation of the total blood volume every one and
a quarter minutes (see chart)! What an organ! Although its weight is
measured in ounces (see chart) each 24-hours (see chart) it pulses
about 100,000 times, moving 10 or more tons (see chart) of blood
through it!
