
Well, this was only one of the physical-chemical oddities Prime
installed in his heat-life-form contrivance. The other which I
shall describe at this time was the so-called _brain_, or seat of
intelligence. By a rather sluggish and clumsy system of electron-flow,
the human's brain controlled physical activities, stored memories and
managed a perverted form of thinking that was too intimately involved
with sub-conscious, bodily interferences ever to amount to much.

Nevertheless, this outrageously complicated thought-organ was the seat
of Prime's catastrophe, and also, it has proved to be the source of the
subject of this report.

Early in Prime's animal-evolution, he explained, his animal's brain
developed what he described as an _instinct for survival_. I interpret
this as meaning simply an excessive desire to remain in a state of
self-awareness.

Please note, this is quite aside from a secondary instinct, that
of reproduction or survival of the race, which is _not_ unheard of
elsewhere.

But in Prime's humans, this tremendous desire for survival of the
individual grew into a virtual obsession. I tested Prime, himself,
on this factor, and found him quite normal. He had no feeling at all
on the subject of remaining self-aware. I had thought this unseemly
human characteristic might have been a perversion from his unhealthy
egotism, but patently it was not.

Therefore, I had to conclude that the human's high drive to
self-preservation was of a spontaneous nature, deriving as one of the
random results of Prime's unique heat-life-forms.

Anyway, Prime had been so intent in accomplishing his earlier purpose
that he gave it little thought until it was too late. This purpose,
incidentally, was the only shred of amusement I could salvage from this
last trip.

It developed that Prime and his fellow diamonds bred this whole
life-strain principally to satisfy their insatiable egos. You see, they
finally inculcated into their humans a great love and admiration for
diamonds--so much so that they were declared the prince of gems and
valued most highly for their ornamental value.

Entirely ignorant that diamonds contained a self-awareness of their
own, humans toiled and strained to dig them from deep mines just to
fashion them into baubles for their own adoration.

Here again, Prime asserted a crude genius. Not only did he create a
whole life-form and induce its members to worship him, but also he
insinuated the desire and skill into humans to cut and polish their
diamonds in a manner to provide a maximum of light refraction. Prime
and many others of his Terra kin, enjoyed high stimulation from being
so cut, polished, transported and worshipped.

And so Prime's incredible motives were finally divulged.

A few years (see chart) before my final return, however, Prime's
humans, in their sluggish way, stumbled upon some rudimentary universal
facts about the construction of the atom.

Until this time, as I stated, the humans' extreme obsession with
survival had been of no concern to Prime, although the instinct
had brought his prize animal into a savage, vicious, condition of
belligerence that resulted in highly destructive warfare among various
groups.

Atomic power changed all this rather quickly. Where humans had
previously only managed to slaughter other organic life-forms and each
other, now they began detonating nuclear devices. And in the process
even the durable diamond family suffered many casualties.
