
At this point, I gather, Prime's egotism became somewhat sublimated
into outrage and anger, that his adoring subjects could be so
thoughtless as to destroy their precious diamonds along with their own
populace.

After the initial incident in an area called Japan, Prime passed the
word to all his fellows, and they deliberately spurred the humans
on to produce great piles of nuclear ammunition. Later, by clever
manipulation of the humans' sub-conscious emotions and instincts of
self-preservation, Prime's culture ironically turned this unique
attribute back on the humans. They were goaded into a self-destroying
atomic war that accomplished Prime's vengeance in a very brief time.

True, a great number of diamonds were destroyed in the holocaust,
but as I mentioned, Prime was not at all contaminated with this
survival-of-the-individual instinct of his created life-forms.

Rather, he gloated and took immense egotistical pleasure in the
destruction of his creations.

When I came upon him that last day in his oxidized condition he had
only one regret. He confessed that a single human individual had
escaped the radio-active destruction. Blinded and weakened, he was
at the point of despair when I scraped the black oxidation from his
exterior. It was this last human's death which he named when I asked
him the nature of his mission.

He invited me to come along, solely, I suspect, to save him the
strenuous task of teleportation of his own mass to the vicinity of the
human.

As he bid, I carried him across one ocean, deep into the interior of a
continent he called North America. My curiosity was at some pitch to
meet a living specimen of Prime's paternity, although I gave him no
inkling of my sharp interest.

We found this human, a _female_, (see chart) near the peak of a
mountain. Her abode was a great cave lined with lead, air-tight and
littered with mechanical devices to filter the air she breathed and
otherwise provide for her survival.

Prime explained that this female had been considered a highly beautiful
example of her kind, yet she was also a scientist of some reputation.

Her scientific ability and remarkable foresight were quite apparent
from the scrupulous pains she had taken to avoid destruction--since
that was her motivation in secreting herself in the wilderness.

Her appearance, however, was anything but thrilling to me. The
protuberance that Prime called her _head_ was covered with a sickly
yellow tangle of filaments. The organs for sight, hearing, aereation
and speaking were unsightly bumps, holes and gashes. I will admit that
the way she moved her torso and appendages did have a certain exotic
rhythm, but by and large I was unimpressed by her physical appearance.

With my assistance, Prime and I materialized inside her abode without
violating the integrity of her air-tight structure. I placed Prime
on the female's _table_ (see chart) where she was busily ingesting
preserved organic material from an open vessel of alloyed metals.

She gasped, and her visual sockets opened wide. I sensed fear-shock
then admiration bordering on ecstasy. She grasped Prime with an
appendage and held him up to a source of artificial light.

I fully expected him to strike her dead with the brain-searing power he
could command, but did he? No! The worshipful emanations washed over
him from the female's mind, and his anger dissipated.

"What a marvelous jewel!" the female exclaimed, little realizing that
she was unwittingly protracting her life.

For the first time Prime communicated directly with a human being.
He telepathed, "I am, indeed, a fine jewel. Six carats of flawless,
blue-white!"

The female's face contorted, and her mind revealed fear again, fear for
her sanity and a great confusion. Gradually, she calmed, however, and
I could see that in spite of his diminished anger, Prime was enjoying
her agitation as well as her admiration.

"You are not mad," he said at length. "I am a diamond, all right, but
feast your eyes well, for I have come to destroy you as I have the rest
of your ungrateful race."

"Why? Why?" she cried, her appendages trembling and waves of fear
beating out. Her eyes seemed to bulge in fascinated terror as she
stared at Prime. She couldn't, of course, sense my presence, since she
was minus that one critical perceptic.

Prime snapped back at her, "Because you are a race of hypocrites. You
professed to love your diamonds, yet you have destroyed them by the
thousands in your vandalistic warfare."

The thought was more than she could encompass, so Prime embraced her
mind with a telepathic field and patiently revealed the whole, lengthy
history of his creation of the human race and its delinquent failure to
pay proper respect to its creator.
