
When she recovered from the overwhelming revelation she threw back her
head and exclaimed, "The secret of human life! The eternal goal of the
philosophers! And I have learned it!"

She broke into an emotional laugh that defies my powers of description.
In it were vestiges of irony, amusement, self-pity and terror, but none
of the adoring remorse that Prime had been seeking.

Then suddenly a little corner of her brain blocked itself off from both
Prime and me. She said, "But if you destroy me, who will be left to
love you and admire you?"

Through some oversight of logic, this had never occurred to Prime,
which was indicative of his many deficiencies. Not that his logic had
much to recommend it, but at least he might have been consistent.

At the time she spoke thusly she fondled Prime and moved him closer to
the light. Attuned as I was to the female through Prime's perceptics, I
slowly became entranced with the spell she cast over him.

She said, "I don't doubt that you can destroy me, and perhaps I deserve
it. But how proud I am to have custody of the most exquisite diamond in
the whole world--even if it is only for a few seconds before I perish."

May I point out at this stage that the female's behavior was now solely
motivated by this above-mentioned _survival_ instinct. In the face of
almost certain extinction she was mustering every wile and emotional
device at her command to influence Prime to spare her insignificant
life.

The effect on Prime was fantastic. He flashed cold fire from his
facets, and his sensuous delight was a thing of embarrassment.

Yet, in proximity to him as I was, I could not avoid some of the exotic
essence of her transparent flattery. I found myself trying to justify
Prime's change.

He said at last, "You are quite right, woman. It is fitting that the
last human on earth live to pay respect to the creator of her race."

Instantly the female's whole attitude changed. With the realization
that she had Prime in her control, she became demanding.

"Of course, I shall require some consideration, too," she said.

"Whatever is necessary to provide for your comfort shall be
accomplished," he agreed without hesitation. "What did you have in
mind?"

"A mate," she said. "You destroyed my mate in the first Soviet attack.
You must give me a mate."

Prime thought that one over. "But then there would be children,"
he objected, dimly aware that somehow his recent resolve was being
subverted.

"Of course," she said. "Many of them. All the more to worship you. And
when my mate and I die, we will leave others behind to continue our
devotion to you."

"Well, I don't know," Prime said, but there was no longer any doubt in
the female's mind--nor in my own.

After all he had endured for the sake of vengeance, Prime was prepared
to produce a mate for this female and begin the whole silly business
all over again!

At this point I withdrew.

As you can see, this instinct for survival or self-preservation is a
fabulously potent factor, and if _man_ is ever allowed loose in the
universe it is difficult to foresee where it might end.

In my opinion we are hardly justified in continuing the Life-Charter
to the crystalline carbon element in this galaxy. Regardless of
Prime's pseudo-brilliance of bio-chemical creation, never in all my
travels have I encountered such an egotistical, futile, fickle-minded
_chucklehead_ (see chart for equivalent). _End of report._