
Tony Andrews handed Peter a key ring tag. It was an advertisement for
an automobile salesroom, and it stated that any possible finders should
merely drop the key ring and chain into the nearest mailbox; that the
addressee would pay the postage. It then gave Tony Andrews' name and
address and telephone number.

"Think ... if it's found anywhere ... it'll be returned?"

"That's how they sent them out," he said. "Darned good advertisement,
too."

"But--"

"Look, Peter, if this ... and it must go somewhere ... lands close by,
it'll be returned. Perhaps we'll get a letter, too, telling us where.
If it lands in some distant country, we'll probably get it back with a
letter telling us that I sure did get around."

"You feel certain that it will land somewhere on earth."

Tony Andrews nodded. "There is no pressure gradient worthy of the name
across the face of this," he said. "Though there is a very slight
motion of air through the ring. That means that the air pressure on
either side of this ding busted ring is about the same. Funny, though,
it sort of blows both ways."

Peter nodded. From either side he poked forefingers in. At the plane
of cleavage, both fingers passed forward into--through--one another,
giving an appearance very much like poking the forefinger into a pool
of mercury.

Andrews shuddered. Then he took the little circlet, held the ring
sidewise, and dropped the tag from the key ring through it. Through the
ring they heard it clang onto the floor.

Peter took the ring from Andrews and put it horizontal, close to the
floor. He put a finger through it and probed.

He said: "Ah!" and put thumb and forefinger through the ring and came
up with the tag.

"What's down there?" asked Andrews.

"Feels like wood." Peter poked a ruler through and measured the
distance. About two inches differed between the concrete of Peter's
basement floor and the wood surface of the other.

"We'll lick that," said Peter. "I've got a tiny miniature camera
upstairs. We poke it through and take a picture or two."

That was a flat failure, they found. The film came out utterly black.
Whether the film was exposed in passing, or whether the "other side"
was highly illuminated could not be determined. They could control the
light in the cellar so that the partially "gone" camera would not cause
exposure of the film. But if the other side were brightly illuminated,
there would be an instant where the film was open to the light. They
tried for hours, but failed.

Eventually, Andrews took his mousetrap home with him and set it up in
the kitchen.

Again, its take was enormous.
