
Senator Treed entered the hardware store along Connecticut Avenue and
asked the clerk for a mousetrap. The clerk looked surprised and said,
"But you're living in the Wardman Park Hotel, senator."

"I know. Reputed to be one of the finest hotels in Washington, too.
But, there're mice there."

"Hard to believe. Does the management know?"

"Not yet," said the senator quietly. "And say nothing, please. You see,
Mrs. Treed and I just returned from a vacation in Wisconsin and we had
a large number of packing cases delivered to our suite. It is more
than possible that we included a few field mice. I'd hate to be held
responsible for bringing mice into the Wardman Park."

The clerk grinned. "Mice in the Wardman Park. That's a national
calamity, isn't it?"

Senator Treed scowled. "Young man, this rat plague is a national
calamity. You do not realize how bad it really is. An outbreak caused
by the war."

"Come now, senator. Don't blame everything on the war."

Senator Treed shook his head. "I try to be level headed and as honest
as I can," he said. "But how many mousetraps have you had in the place
since Pearl Harbor?"

"Not many," admitted the clerk.

"Freedom from rodent pests is a warfare that must be constantly and
ruthlessly waged," replied the senator. "Otherwise, they overwhelm us.
We stopped fighting rats to fight another kind. We licked the other
kind, but there's this kind still. Now, what's new in mousetraps?"

"Here's a new number. It's called the Better Mousetrap. A new company
started about a week ago and we accepted one on consignment."

"How much is it?" asked the senator.

"It's not for sale."

The senator spluttered in confusion.

"It's on a rental basis," said the clerk. "There's a register below. It
counts the catch. You pay two cents per catch."

"Really a guaranteed job, hey?" smiled the senator. "How does it work?"

The clerk held up the trap. "This is where you put the bait," he said.
"You impale it on this spike and then swivel it through the slit in the
wire so the mice must enter the tunnel to get to it."

"Yeah, but there's nothing there to stop the mice from having a free
lunch," objected the senator.

The clerk took a small bolt, set it on the floor of the tunnel, tilted
the cage and let the bolt run down the floor slowly. It passed through
the circlet and disappeared.

"Hey!"

The clerk grinned. "Convenient, isn't it? No muss, no fuss, no strain,
no pain. And no corpse to clean away."

"A very definite advantage," said the senator. "But where do they go?"

"No one knows. They go--and we ask no questions."

"Make a fine garbage disposal unit," suggested the senator.

"Could be. I imagine so. Also a swell way to get rid of old razor
blades. But every item that goes through this trap is registered--and
that bolt will cost the firm two cents. It can't tell the difference
between a bolt and a mouse."

"Hm-m-m. Good thing that tunnel is long and small. People would be
poking all manner of things into them. But where do they go?"

"They're trying to find out. So far they don't know. It's said that
one of the founders of the Better Mousetrap Company dropped a tag
through with name and address and the offer of a reward. It hasn't been
returned. Maybe the mail is irregular from Mars, huh?"

"Mars?"

The clerk shrugged. "I wouldn't know where," he said doubtfully.

The senator nodded. "Despite the population of the country--of the
world--there are places where men seldom go," he said. "That tag may
be lying in the rough at Bonnie Dundee Golf Course for all we know."
