
Miss Agatha Merrit placed her pince-nez firmly on her nose. "Good
morning, class," she said primly and with perfect diction.

"Good morning, teacher," responded forty third-grade voices.

Miss Agatha Merrit went to her desk and sat down. "Today," she said,
"we will learn about being afraid. It is known that ninety percent of
all things that people fear will not harm them. I know of big strong
men afraid of insects and many women are dreadfully frightened of mice."

Peter Manton, Junior, raised his hand and said: "My father built a
Better Mousetrap," he announced irrelevantly.

Miss Agatha Merrit was annoyed at the sidetracking, but young Manton's
father was becoming a financial force in the community and she felt it
unwise to ignore the comment. "I understand that the world is starting
to beat a path to your door," she said, completing the old platitude.
"But we're speaking of fear, not mice."

"You're not afraid of mice?" insisted young Peter.

"I can't say that I like them," said Miss Agatha Merrit. "Though I feel
that the mouse is more frightened of me than I could possibly be of it.
After all, I am quite a bit larger and more capable than a mouse--"

Miss Agatha Merrit opened the drawer of her desk but was prevented from
looking in.

The next several minutes are not describable. Not in any sort of
chronological order because everything happened at once. Miss Agatha
Merrit headed for the chandelier and got as far as the top of her chair
which somehow arrived on the top of the table. Mice boiled out of the
desk drawer and spread in a wave across the desk and across the floor.
In a ragged wave front, the third-grade girls found the tops of their
desks and the third-grade boys yelped in amusement and started to
corral the mice. By the time the room was cleaned up an hour later, the
boys had thirty-four mice in a wastebasket covered by a small drawing
board, four mice had escaped down holes in the woodwork, seven had gone
out under the door, and three were trying to find their way out of
nine-year-old pockets.

Miss Agatha Merrit never did learn the name of the ringleader of
that prank. She strongly suspected Peter Junior who was at best an
imaginative child with a clever mind and few inhibitions. What bothered
her most was that the trick was repeated.

There were three drawers in her desk. Young Peter Manton brought, on
the following morning, one of his father's Better Mousetraps. She
placed it in the drawer that had been "salted" with mice the day
before, but the pranksters used the second drawer that night. Carefully
she concealed the trap in the third drawer on the following night, and
the mice turned up in the top drawer again.

It became a race. Whether the problem would be solved before Miss
Agatha Merrit became a quivering nervous wreck.

A total of one hundred and seventy-three mice registered on the Better
Mousetrap in a week, and then Miss Agatha Merrit polished off the job
by procuring enough traps for all of the desk drawers. Since no place
remained to place them without the mice being collected and destroyed,
the mice-filled drawers ceased to be a favorite prank of the school.
The children, all of them sweet innocents, took to other forms of
childish torture.

She confessed to Peter Manton, Senior, that had it not been for his
excellent product, she would be a nervous wreck. "And," she said, "I
never did find out where they came from."

He grinned. "We've never found out where they went," he told her.

"I shudder," said Miss Agatha Merrit, "to think. Do you suppose, Mr.
Manton, that your device transmits them to some other corner of the
world?"

"We have tried to find out. Mice, unfortunately do not take well to
being tagged. But we've tagged a number of them in the hope that we
will discover where they go."

"I've noticed in the papers," replied Miss Agatha Merrit, "that there
is a veritable plague of rats. The Chicago _World_ had an editorial
about you ... did you see it?"

"No," he admitted. "But I'm rather pleased. What did they say?"

"It seems that the Chicago _World_ was plagued with rats until they got
about two dozen of your Better Mousetraps. That fixed them. Now they
claim that your invention came along at the proper time. The world is
about to beat its path to your door, Mr. Manton."

Peter shrugged. "Most inventions are made to fill a definite need," he
said. "Discoveries are made because of man's curiosity. An invention is
an aggregation of discoveries collected because their principles add up
to the proper effect to take care of the necessity. I'm glad that I was
able to make this invention of mine. It seems timely."
