
Senator Treed rapped for attention and the committee came to order.
"This morning," said Treed, "we will have open discussion of the
problem."

General Hayes nodded and said: "This much is known: The mice are
delivered somewhere out of Manton's Better Mousetrap. I wonder if some
foreign power might not have discovered even more of its powers and is
using it to plague America?"

"That seems far fetched."

"Not at all. It might be likened to a bacterial warfare. Pests will
vitiate a country as well as war--weakening a strong country to prepare
it for easy conquest."

Tag Harris of the FBI Laboratory shook his head. "There's more than
meets the eye," he said. "I've definite proof that some human agency is
working at it."

"You have?" demanded Senator Treed. "Tell us."

"We tagged rats and sent 'em through one of Manton's traps. Later we
used one of the old wire-cage affairs. Someone had gone to the trouble
of counterfeiting some of our tags. Out of fifty-seven rats caught with
tags, we found a duplicate number. Someone obviously caught a tagged
one from wherever it was sent, and in an effort to confuse us, made
duplicate tags and sent 'em back."

"Deliberate!"

Admiral Grayson of Intelligence nodded. "Tomlinson of Psychological
Warfare says that's what he would recommend to spread confusion. You
see, this Power would not stop; they would also know that we are
trying to find out all about it. Therefore they would prefer to add
confusion to our search. Hence the duplication of tags."

"Could you tell the real one?"

Harris nodded. "Easily. The original one was well worn because the rat
had more time to go roaming. The duplicate was almost new."

"They never did turn up with that key tag of Andrews, did they?"

"Nope."

"No one but a suspicious Power would conceal such a thing now that the
search for it is out. The answer is obvious."

Treed nodded in agreement. "I shall recommend that Congress offer an
award of twenty thousand dollars to whomever gives information to bring
the truth to light." He shuddered. "This rat business is terrible. My
wife is nearly out of her mind. Last night she swore that she saw a rat
_appear_ on the floor beneath the dresser. I hushed it, of course, but
that is why I'm bringing this committee to order on the subject."

"Perhaps Manton's device just hurls them back and forth across the
country."

Treed shook his head. "Manton's Better Mousetrap doesn't work that
way," he said with conviction. "Thanks to Manton's little registers
we know that Manton's catch--overall--has been rising but definitely
following the increase in rat population over the entire country. You
see, gentlemen, Manton's traps have been made to fill a demand in
every case. It started with friends who needed them. You're sort of
insisting that Manton's traps come assembled with its own mice."

That got a big laugh.

"And," said Senator Treed, "God help the one who is responsible for
this!"
