
Tony Andrews entered the salesroom and smiled at the clerk. "Look," he
said, "I've been a good customer."

"You have," agreed the salesman. "I know you. I'm Tom Locke."

"Well, Mr. Locke, I'd like another one of those key tags."

The salesman nodded. "Those things are popular," he said. "But what
happened?"

"I dropped mine through one of those Better Mousetraps."

"Oh," laughed the salesman, "they've been returned from every portion
of the globe. But I guess the mail service isn't too good from wherever
That is."

"I'd hoped it would come back," said Andrews. "But I'm wrong. And I'd
like another one."

"Sure. Be glad to. Since you're the man who originated the idea with
us."

"I'm sorry to have to ask--What? Originated what?"

"Why yes. The tale goes that you came in to buy a car quite some time
ago, and the salesman saw the tag on your key ring. He mentioned it to
Mr. Cagley who is our advertising manager. He had the tags made up and
we gave them out to our best customers."

"Then you've got me mixed up with someone else. For I received mine as
they did. Mine came in the mail and cost me three cents--which was as
good an advertising stunt as the tags themse--"

"Mail? Mail? We gave them in person."

"But mine came through the mail."

"Sorry. We've never sent any of them through the mail."

"Oh," said Andrews with rising suspicion. He took the new tag with
thanks and returned to Peter Manton's home.

"Peter, is Junior handy?"

Manton nodded and called. Junior came. Then Andrews said: "Junior, have
you ever seen anything like this before?"

Junior nodded. "Last winter. Found it down in the cellar on my sled."

"Sled!"

"Uh-huh. Then because it said to drop it in the mail box if found, I
did. You got it, huh?"

Andrews nodded. "Yup," he said. "I got it! Peter Manton, you haven't
seen the end of this, yet."

Manton frowned slightly. "Why?" he asked.

"You've really built the Better Mousetrap, and you haven't seen the
people who are going to beat their path to your door. They haven't
really arrived yet. But they will!"
