
Any one passing by Jim Heck's tumbled-down cottage Thanksgiving night
would have been astonished at the number of gleaming lights flashing
out upon the snow through the cracked and grimy window-panes, and would
have stopped for a moment to listen to the sounds of revelry within
doors. A fiddle squeaked in a lively, even if discordant fashion, while
a banjo made frantic efforts to keep it company. There was a sound,
too, as if of many feet dancing an old-fashioned break-down, which made
the shanty fairly tremble under the unwonted strain upon its frail
supports.

The aroma of hot coffee also floated out upon the crisp air, mingled
with an odor of more substantial viands, which appealed strongly to the
imagination of a passing tramp who had paused to look through a window
void of shade or curtain.

Suddenly the dance ended; the music ceased with one last unearthly
squeak, and for the space of a single moment almost perfect silence
reigned, and then it seemed as though just previously a cyclone of
noise had been running riot.

At this juncture from the doorway of the combined dining-room and
kitchen the host himself announced in his most gracious manner, "Supper
am suhved, ladies and gemmin; choose youah pardners and walk out!"

With one hand he pulled down the draperies which had been improvised
for the occasion, and which had so far kept the glories of the feast
hidden from view; whilst with the other he politely motioned his guests
to cross the hospitable threshold. For a second nobody stirred; a
bashfulness as sudden as it was unusual seemed to have seized old and
young alike. Then a tall mulatto took his late "partner" by the arm
and made a hasty exit into the supper room. This was the signal for
a general stampede for seats; but when the full glories of the scene
impressed themselves upon the senses of the bewildered guests, each and
all stood as if rooted to the spot, staring with eyes and mouth wide
open at the unexpected grandeur.

At the head of the table stood Miss Myra herself. But such a Miss Myra!
Accustomed to see her always in the latest style, they had, "up to
date," never beheld her attired like this.

Solomon in all his glory, the lilies of the field in their beauty, were
as nothing compared to her!

She wore a trained robe of richest ivory satin, elaborately trimmed
with point lace; the dusky neck and arms shone like polished ebony
against the glimmering sheen of the satin.

She stood perfectly silent for a moment, her head uplifted, and with
a haughty smile upon her lips, did her utmost to impress these humble
admirers with this transitory grandeur.

"Yes, it jis' is indeed Mis Holmes' weddin' dress, nuffin' else, you
simpletons," she said calmly, as if announcing the most commonplace
fact. "An' dis yeah is her linen, and dat's her coffee; and it's
her silber, too," she added calmly, as she moved her hands here and
there, pointing out the objects which she named. "But dat is nobody's
business but mine; you uns has nuffin' to do but enjoy de good things
I'se provided. Sit down, goosies, and let der feast proceed," she
commanded in an imperious manner, and set the example by seating
herself--with due regard for her long-trained gown--at the head of the
table.

This proceeding elicited tumultuous applause, and from that moment
until the gray dawn began to lighten the east, the fun was fast and
furious.

Of all races in the world none can equal the African in its abandon
of enjoyment. From the far-off homes of their ancestors, where the
tropical sun forces vegetation into luxuriance and raises the blood
to well-nigh fever heat, the negroes of the South have derived the
power to live in and for the present only. "Foolish!" you say? Well,
probably. Yet, after all, how much of human wretchedness results from
either idle regrets for an unalterable past, or causeless care for an
undiscoverable future? Be this as it may, at Miss Myra's Thanksgiving
party shouts of laughter, bursts of negro melody, the shuffling of
feet, all these sounds became more and more tumultuous as the night
waned.

In the early morning dusky forms might have been seen entering many a
back or side door in Rexville, and many a mistress complained that day
of inattention to duty; but the darkies never told the secret of their
all-night festivities.

For many and many a day the glories of Miss Heck's Thanksgiving party
lingered in the minds and on the tongues of the favored guests.

Upon the return of the banker's wife, that worthy lady found all her
belongings in the same condition, apparently, as when she left home.
Miss Myra was shrewd enough to skillfully effect this result, and if
ever her conscience troubled her in reference to her late "grand ball,"
she always quieted its qualms by saying: "What Mis Holmes don't know
ain't gwine ter hurt her none! 'Tain't right ter be selfish in dis
wurld noway! If der Lawd don't make no ekal division of things, why
I'll jes have ter help, an' dat's all ther is about hit!"
