
When Cororuc recovered his senses, he found that he was bound, hand and
foot. He was being borne along, over rough ground. He looked about him.
Men carried him on their shoulders, but such men as he had never seen
before. Scarce above four feet stood the tallest, and they were small
of build and very dark of complexion. Their eyes were black; and most
of them went stooped forward, as if from a lifetime spent in crouching
and hiding; peering furtively on all sides. They were armed with
small bows, arrows, spears and daggers, all pointed, not with crudely
worked bronze but with flint and obsidian, of the finest workmanship.
They were dressed in finely dressed hides of rabbits and other small
animals, and a kind of coarse cloth; and many were tattooed from head
to foot in ocher and woad. There were perhaps twenty in all. What sort
of men were they? Cororuc had never seen the like.

They were going down a ravine, on both sides of which steep cliffs
rose. Presently they seemed to come to a blank wall, where the ravine
appeared to come to an abrupt stop. Here, at a word from one who seemed
to be in command, they set the Briton down, and seizing hold of a large
boulder, drew it to one side. A small cavern was exposed, seeming to
vanish away into the earth; then the strange men picked up the Briton
and moved forward.

Cororuc's hair bristled at thought of being borne into that
forbidding-looking cave. What manner of men were they? In all Britain
and Alba, in Cornwall or Ireland, Cororuc had never seen such men.
Small dwarfish men, who dwelt in the earth. Cold sweat broke out on the
youth's forehead. Surely they were the malevolent dwarfs of whom the
Cornish people had spoken, who dwelt in their caverns by day, and by
night sallied forth to steal and burn dwellings, even slaying if the
opportunity arose! You will hear of them, even today, if you journey in
Cornwall.

The men, or elves, if such they were, bore him into the cavern, others
entering and drawing the boulder back into place. For a moment all was
darkness, and then torches began to glow, away off. And at a shout they
moved on. Other men of the caves came forward, with the torches.

Cororuc looked about him. The torches shed a vague glow over the
scene. Sometimes one, sometimes another wall of the cave showed for
an instant, and the Briton was vaguely aware that they were covered
with paintings, crudely done, yet with a certain skill his own race
could not equal. But always the roof remained unseen. Cororuc knew that
the seemingly small cavern had merged into a cave of surprizing size.
Through the vague light of the torches the strange people moved, came
and went, silently, like shadows of the dim past.

He felt the cords or thongs that bound his feet loosened. He was lifted
upright.

"Walk straight ahead," said a voice, speaking the language of his own
race, and he felt a spearpoint touch the back of his neck.

And straight ahead he walked, feeling his sandals scrape on the
stone floor of the cave, until they came to a place where the floor
tilted upward. The pitch was steep and the stone was so slippery that
Cororuc could not have climbed it alone. But his captors pushed him,
and pulled him, and he saw that long, strong vines were strung from
somewhere at the top.

Those the strange men seized, and bracing their feet against the
slippery ascent, went up swiftly. When their feet found level surface
again, the cave made a turn, and Cororuc blundered out into a firelit
scene that made him gasp.

The cave debouched into a cavern so vast as to be almost incredible.
The mighty walls swept up into a great arched roof that vanished in the
darkness. A level floor lay between, and through it flowed a river; an
underground river. From under one wall it flowed to vanish silently
under the other. An arched stone bridge, seemingly of natural make,
spanned the current.

All around the walls of the great cavern, which was roughly circular,
were smaller caves, and before each glowed a fire. Higher up were other
caves, regularly arranged, tier on tier. Surely human men could not
have built such a city.

In and out among the caves, on the level floor of the main cavern,
people were going about what seemed daily tasks. Men were talking
together and mending weapons, some were fishing from the river;
women were replenishing fires, preparing garments; and altogether it
might have been any other village in Britain, to judge from their
occupations. But it all struck Cororuc as extremely unreal; the strange
place, the small, silent people, going about their tasks, the river
flowing silently through it all.

Then they became aware of the prisoner and flocked about him. There was
none of the shouting, abuse and indignities, such as savages usually
heap on their captives, as the small men drew about Cororuc, silently
eyeing him with malevolent, wolfish stares. The warrior shuddered, in
spite of himself.

But his captors pushed through the throng, driving the Briton before
them. Close to the bank of the river, they stopped and drew away from
around him.
