
Two great fires leaped and flickered in front of him and there was
something between them. He focused his gaze and presently made out the
object. A high stone seat, like a throne; and in it seated an aged man,
with a long white beard, silent, motionless, but with black eyes that
gleamed like a wolf's.

The ancient was clothed in some kind of a single, flowing garment. One
clawlike hand rested on the seat near him, skinny, crooked fingers,
with talons like a hawk's. The other hand was hidden among his garments.

The firelight danced and flickered; now the old man stood out clearly,
his hooked, beaklike nose and long beard thrown into bold relief; now
he seemed to recede until he was invisible to the gaze of the Briton,
except for his glittering eyes.

"Speak, Briton!" The words came suddenly, strong, clear, without a hint
of age. "Speak, what would ye say?"

Cororuc, taken aback, stammered and said, "Why, why--what manner of
people are you? Why have you taken me prisoner? Are you elves?"

"We are Picts," was the stern reply.

"Picts!" Cororuc had heard tales of those ancient people from the
Gaelic Britons; some said that they still lurked in the hill of
Siluria, but----

"I have fought Picts in Caledonia," the Briton protested; "they are
short but massive and misshapen; not at all like you!"

"They are not true Picts," came the stern retort. "Look about you,
Briton," with a wave of an arm, "you see the remnants of a vanishing
race; a race that once ruled Britain from sea to sea."

The Briton stared, bewildered.

"Harken, Briton," the voice continued; "harken, barbarian, while I tell
to you the tale of the lost race."

The firelight flickered and danced, throwing vague reflections on the
towering walls and on the rushing, silent current.

The ancient's voice echoed through the mighty cavern.

"Our people came from the south. Over the islands, over the Inland
Sea. Over the snow-topped mountains, where some remained, to stay
any enemies who might follow. Down into the fertile plains we came.
Over all the land we spread. We became wealthy and prosperous. Then
two kings arose in the land, and he who conquered, drove out the
conquered. So many of us made boats and set sail for the far-off cliffs
that gleamed white in the sunlight. We found a fair land with fertile
plains. We found a race of red-haired barbarians, who dwelt in caves.
Mighty giants, of great bodies and small minds.

"We built our huts of wattle. We tilled the soil. We cleared the
forest. We drove the red-haired giants back into the forest. Farther we
drove them back until at last they fled to the mountains of the west
and the mountains of the north. We were rich. We were prosperous.

"Then," and his voice thrilled with rage and hate, until it seemed to
reverberate through the cavern, "then the Celts came. From the isles of
the west, in their rude coracles they came. In the west they landed,
but they were not satisfied with the west. They marched eastward and
seized the fertile plains. We fought. They were stronger. They were
fierce fighters and they were armed with weapons of bronze, whereas we
had only weapons of flint.

"We were driven out. They enslaved us. They drove us into the forest.
Some of us fled into the mountains of the west. Many fled into the
mountains of the north. There they mingled with the red-haired giants
we drove out so long ago, and became a race of monstrous dwarfs, losing
all the arts of peace and gaining only the ability to fight.

"But some of us swore that we would never leave the land we had fought
for. But the Celts pressed us. There were many, and more came. So we
took to caverns, to ravines, to caves. We, who had always dwelt in huts
that let in much light, who had always tilled the soil, we learned to
dwell like beasts, in caves where no sunlight ever entered. Caves we
found, of which this is the greatest; caves we made.

"You, Briton," the voice became a shriek and a long arm was
outstretched in accusation, "you and your race! You have made a free,
prosperous nation into a race of earth-rats! We who never fled, who
dwelt in the air and the sunlight close by the sea where traders came,
we must flee like hunted beasts and burrow like moles! But at night!
Ah, then for our vengeance! Then we slip from our hiding places, from
our ravines and our caves, with torch and dagger! Look, Briton!"

And following the gesture, Cororuc saw a rounded post of some kind of
very hard wood, set in a niche in the stone floor, close to the bank.
The floor about the niche was charred as if by old fires.

Cororuc stared, uncomprehending. Indeed, he understood little of what
had passed. That these people were even human, he was not at all
certain. He had heard so much of them as "little people." Tales of
their doings, their hatred of the race of man, and their maliciousness
flocked back to him. Little he knew that he was gazing on one of the
mysteries of the ages. That the tales which the ancient Gaels told of
the Picts, already warped, would become even more warped from age to
age, to result in tales of elves, dwarfs, trolls and fairies, at first
accepted and then rejected, entire, by the race of men, just as the
Neandertal monsters resulted in tales of goblins and ogres. But of that
Cororuc neither knew nor cared, and the ancient was speaking again.

"There, there, Briton," exulted he, pointing to the post, "there you
shall pay! A scant payment for the debt your race owes mine, but to the
fullest of your extent."

The old man's exultation would have been fiendish, except for a certain
high purpose in his face. He was sincere. He believed that he was only
taking just vengeance; and he seemed like some great patriot for a
mighty, lost cause.

"But I am a Briton!" stammered Cororuc. "It was not my people who drove
your race into exile! They were Gaels, from Ireland. I am a Briton and
my race came from Gallia only a hundred years ago. We conquered the
Gaels and drove them into Erin, Wales and Caledonia, even as they drove
your race."

"No matter!" The ancient chief was on his feet. "A Celt is a Celt.
Briton, or Gael, it makes no difference. Had it not been Gael, it would
have been Briton. Every Celt who falls into our hands must pay, be it
warrior or woman, babe or king. Seize him and bind him to the post."

In an instant Cororuc was bound to the post, and he saw, with horror,
the Picts piling firewood about his feet.

"And when you are sufficiently burned, Briton," said the ancient, "this
dagger that has drunk the blood of an hundred Britons, shall quench its
thirst in yours."

"But never have I harmed a Pict!" Cororuc gasped, struggling with his
bonds.

"You pay, not for what you did, but for what your race has done,"
answered the ancient sternly. "Well do I remember the deeds of
the Celts when first they landed on Britain--the shrieks of the
slaughtered, the screams of ravished girls, the smokes of burning
villages, the plundering."

Cororuc felt his short neck-hairs bristle. When first the Celts landed
on Britain! That was over five hundred years ago!

And his Celtic curiosity would not let him keep still, even at the
stake with the Picts preparing to light firewood piled about him.

"You could not remember that. That was ages ago."

The ancient looked at him somberly. "And I am age-old. In my youth I
was a witch-finder, and an old woman witch cursed me as she writhed at
the stake. She said I should live until the last child of the Pictish
race had passed. That I should see the once mighty nation go down into
oblivion and then--and only then--should I follow it. For she put upon
me the curse of life everlasting."

Then his voice rose until it filled the cavern, "But the curse was
nothing. Words can do no harm, can do nothing, to a man. I live. An
hundred generations have I seen come and go, and yet another hundred.
What is time? The sun rises and sets, and another day has passed into
oblivion. Men watch the sun and set their lives by it. They league
themselves on every hand with time. They count the minutes that race
them into eternity. Man outlived the centuries ere he began to reckon
time. Time is man-made. Eternity is the work of the gods. In this
cavern there is no such thing as time. There are no stars, no sun.
Without is time; within is eternity. We count not time. Nothing marks
the speeding of the hours. The youths go forth. They see the sun, the
stars. They reckon time. And they pass. I was a young man when I
entered this cavern. I have never left it. As you reckon time, I may
have dwelt here a thousand years; or an hour. When not banded by time,
the soul, the mind, call it what you will, can conquer the body. And
the wise men of the race, in my youth, knew more than the outer world
will ever learn. When I feel that my body begins to weaken, I take the
magic draft, that is known only to me, of all the world. It does not
give immortality; that is the work of the mind alone; but it rebuilds
the body. The race of Picts vanish; they fade like the snow on the
mountain. And when the last is gone, this dagger shall free me from the
world." Then in a swift change of tone, "Light the fagots!"
