
Cororuc's mind was fairly reeling. He did not in the least understand
what he had just heard. He was positive that he was going mad; and what
he saw the next minute assured him of it.

Through the throng came a wolf; and he knew that it was the wolf whom
he had rescued from the panther close by the ravine in the forest!

Strange, how long ago and far away that seemed! Yes, it was the same
wolf. That same strange, shambling gait. Then the thing stood erect and
raised its front feet to its head. What nameless horror was that?

[Illustration: "Then the thing stood erect and raised its front feet to
its head. What nameless horror was that?"]

Then the wolf's head fell back, disclosing a man's face. The face of
a Pict; one of the first "werewolves." The man stepped out of the
wolfskin and strode forward, calling something. A Pict just starting
to light the wood about the Briton's feet drew back the torch and
hesitated.

The wolf-Pict stepped forward and began to speak to the chief, using
Celtic, evidently for the prisoner's benefit. (Cororuc was surprized to
hear so many speak his language, not reflecting upon its comparative
simplicity, and the ability of the Picts.)

"What is this?" asked the Pict who had played wolf. "A man is to be
burned who should not be!"

"How?" exclaimed the old man fiercely, clutching his long beard. "Who
are you to go against a custom of age-old antiquity?"

"I met a panther," answered the other, "and this Briton risked his life
to save mine. Shall a Pict show ingratitude?"

And as the ancient hesitated, evidently pulled one way by his fanatical
lust for revenge, and the other by his equally fierce racial pride,
the Pict burst into a wild flight of oration, carried on in his own
language. At last the ancient chief nodded.

"A Pict ever paid his debts," said he with impressive grandeur. "Never
a Pict forgets. Unbind him. No Celt shall ever say that a Pict showed
ingratitude."

Cororuc was released, and as, like a man in a daze, he tried to stammer
his thanks, the chief waved them aside.

"A Pict never forgets a foe, ever remembers a friendly deed," he
replied.

"Come," murmured his Pictish friend, tugging at the Celt's arm.

He led the way into a cave leading away from the main cavern. As they
went, Cororuc looked back, to see the ancient chief seated upon his
stone throne, his eyes gleaming as he seemed to gaze back through the
lost glories of the ages; on each hand the fires leaped and flickered.
A figure of grandeur, the king of a lost race.

On and on Cororuc's guide led him. And at last they emerged and the
Briton saw the starlit sky above him.

"In that way is a village of your tribesmen," said the Pict, pointing,
"where you will find a welcome until you wish to take up your journey
anew."

And he pressed gifts on the Celt; gifts of garments of cloth and finely
worked deerskin, beaded belts, a fine horn bow with arrows skilfully
tipped with obsidian. Gifts of food. His own weapons were returned to
him.

"But an instant," said the Briton, as the Pict turned to go. "I
followed your tracks in the forest. They vanished." There was a
question in his voice.

The Pict laughed softly, "I leaped into the branches of the tree. Had
you looked up, you would have seen me. If ever you wish a friend, you
will ever find one in Berula, chief among the Alban Picts."

He turned and vanished. And Cororuc strode through the moonlight toward
the Celtic village.

