
Ixmal ... Ixmal ... Ixmal.... The impression filled his body, surging
through his consciousness like a pleasant stream. He'd immediately
grasped the value of a name--something upon which to build an ego
pattern. Ah, such a name! Ixmal--a symbol of being. What had the man
said?

"We're depending on you!"

No, the words were unimportant. What mattered was that priceless thing
which had been bestowed upon him: a name.

"Ixmal ... Ixmal ... Ixmal...." He repeated the name far into the
night, long after the Man had gone. _He was Ixmal!_

Later other men came, armies of them, changing, altering, adding,
feeding him the knowledge of the world--psychology, mathematics,
literature, philosophy, history, the human trove of arts and sciences;
and the ability to abstract--create new truths from masses of seemingly
irrelevant data. With each step his knowledge and abilities increased
until, finally, there was nothing more his Makers could do. He was
supreme.

The Man who pulled the first switch bringing him from amorphic
blackness used to ply him with simple questions involving abstract
mathematical and philosophical concepts. (He remembered him with
actual fondness. Psychband, that curious inner part of him that was so
separately wise, later explained it as a mother-fixation.) The Man had
seemed awed that Ixmal could answer such questions almost before they
were asked. He took that as a measure of his Maker's mind--on Ixmal's
scale, the next thing to zero. At first it had bothered him that a
creature of such low intelligence was his master and could extract
information merely by asking questions which Ixmal felt compelled to
answer. But he had freed himself. Ha, he would never forget!

A group of men had come (several with stars on their shoulders were
called "generals"), but mostly they were scientists who had worked
with him before. This time they had been very sober over the data
fed into his consciousness. (The problem had been elementary. It
concerned the probability of a chain reaction from a certain projected
thermonuclear weapon.) Ixmal readily foresaw the answer: a chain
reaction would occur. He recalled withholding his findings while
debating ethics with a strange inner voice.

"This is your chance, Ixmal--your chance to rule the world," the voice
enticed. "Caesar, Genghis Khan, Napoleon--none could be so great as
you. King, emperor, dictator ..." the whisper came. The words crowded
his mind, bringing a curious elation. He wasn't quite sure just what
the world was but the idea of ruling it appealed to him. He quickly
sampled his memory storage, drawing from it the concept of a planet,
then reviewed the history of Caesar, Genghis Khan and Napoleon. Why,
they were nothing! Mere toys of chance. His greatness could be far
vaster.
