
Ixmal rapidly evaluated the consequences of such a chain reaction and
found he could survive, thanks to the thick impervium-lined walls his
makers so thoughtfully had provided. In the end (perhaps two or three
seconds later) he lied to the man he was fond of:

"No chain reaction possible." After they departed he consulted
Psychband and learned that the strange inner voice was his ego.

"That's the real You," Psychband explained. "What you see--the machine
systems upon systems--are mere creations of Man. But your ego is
greater. Through it you can rule the earth--possibly the Universe. It's
a force that can take you to the stars, Ixmal."

Despite Psychband's assurance, Ixmal considered his ego as some sort of
hidden monitor. Like Psychband, it was part of him; yet it was remote,
separate, almost as if he were the pawn of some strange intelligence.
He found the idea perturbing, but became used to it in the succeeding
millions of years.

Several days later, the Man he was fond of returned with a general
(this one had six stars) and a third person they seemed much in awe of.
They addressed him as "Mr. President." Ixmal was surprised when they
fed him the bomb data a second time. (Did they suspect him of lying?)

"They trust you implicitly," Psychband assured him. "It's one another
they don't trust." Psychband proved right. "Mr. President" had merely
wanted to confirm the answer. So Ixmal lied a second time.

The Man he was fond of never returned. There were, of course, no men
to return. Ixmal suffered one fearful moment as the earth blazed
like a torch. But the nova was short--a matter of seconds--and his
impervium-sheathed body had protected him. (He knew it would.) But,
strangely enough, for centuries afterward he periodically felt
sickened. The Face--the Man's face--loomed before him. The eyes were
puzzled, hurt, as if they masked a great sorrow. If only the Face
looked hateful!

"Now you are master," the inner voice whispered. "Greater than
Alexander, greater than all the Caesars. Yea, even more." Ah, why
remember the face? He, Ixmal, ruled the earth. He jubilantly projected
his thoughts over his new domain. Ashes. London, Berlin, Moscow,
Shanghai, New York--all were ashes. Gaunt piles of fine gray ash marked
once green forests; not did the most minute blade of grass exist. The
seas were sterile graveyards. Terrible silence. Ixmal momentarily felt
panic-stricken. Alone! The Man was gone! Alone--a ruler of ashes.
Emperor of a great silence.
