
Night came and he sent exploratory receptors toward the planets.
Mercury still blazed on the sunward side, unchanged. A peculiar
metallic life form still clung to the edge of existence along the
twilight border. Venus suffered under hot swirling gases, a world where
not even the smallest creature stirred. Just furnace winds, burning
sands, grotesque rocks. But beyond the earth, forty million miles away
in empty space, something occurred which hadn't occurred in almost
seven hundred million years. Ixmal sensed _Intelligent Thought_!

He withdrew his receptors without thinking (his first pure reflex),
waiting fearfully until Psychband adjusted him to the situation. Then,
cautiously, he projected cautious thoughts into the void.

"_Who are you? Who are you? Identify._" Silence. Somewhere in the great
vault above something lurked. An _Intelligence_. He must find it,
must test it. It was more than a challenge; it was a threat. Its very
silence was ominous.

"_Who are you? Who are you? You must identify!_"

Silence. Ixmal divided the heavens into cubes and began systematically
exploring each one. Why had the other _thought_ been roaming space?
What had been its origin? In less than ninety thousand years (another
age of vulcanism had arrived and earth mountains were building anew)
he located the thought a second time, placing it as in space cube
97,685-KL-5. This time, prepared, he grasped it, holding it captive
while he tried to analyze its origin and component parent, vexed when
he failed.

"_Who are you?_" Ixmal persisted. "_I demand to know. Who are you?_"

Ages passed.

"_Identify. Identify. Imperative that you identify._"

"_Zale-3._" The answer caught Ixmal by surprise, and he consulted
Psychband.

"Careful--the alien wouldn't reveal himself unless he felt secure,"
Psychband warned.

"I'll decide that," Ixmal replied. (Did Psychband question his
mastery?) Nevertheless he proceeded with caution. "_Where are you from,
Zale-3?_" A long moment of silence followed during which a glacier
advanced and retreated, the seas rose, and the first fierce-toothed
reptiles swooped over swamp jungles on leathery wings.
