
_Where are you from? Where are you from?_ (And why was the mind
of Zale-3 roaming space?) He hammered away at the thought,
desperately trying to break its secret. A million questions pounded
Ixmal's circuits; he sought a million answers. (Who created the
_Intelligence_? Had it been born of the Man he was fond of? Or did it
originate beyond earth?) Ixmal sensed a momentary panic. "_Where are
you from?_"

"_The fourth planet from the sun_," Zale-3 suddenly answered. "_And
you?_"

"_The third planet_," Ixmal replied loftily. "_I rule it._" He felt
annoyed. For untold millions of years he had considered himself as the
only _Intelligence_. Zale-3's answer galled him. Of course the other
wasn't his equal. That was unthinkable.

"_I rule the fourth planet_," Zale-3 said. The answer increased Ixmal's
irritation. Zale-3 actually presumed equality. Well, seven hundred
million years before he had met a similar challenge. (And yea, now the
Man was dust ... dust.) He consulted Psychband, annoyed to find that
his dislike of Zale-3 was founded on an ego-emotion integration rather
than pure reason. Still, the other must be put in his place.

"_I rule the Universe_," Ixmal stated coldly, withdrawing his
receptors. He probed Psychband, somewhat disturbed to learn that Zale-3
would regard his pronouncement as a challenge.

"Destroy him," Psychband urged. "Remember the ancient weapons?"

"Yes, he must be destroyed." Ixmal ceased every activity to concentrate
on the other's destruction. First he would have to locate his lair,
study his habits, assess his weaknesses. And, yes, his strengths, for
the alien was no harmless bit of protoplasm like Man. He must, in fact,
be a creature somewhat like himself. Another god. Ah, but he was the
iconoclast who toppled gods. In somewhat under twenty-five thousand
years he evolved a method of focusing his remote receptors sufficient
to uncover the atoms of the solar system. Now he would be able to
pinpoint Zale-3, study his mind potential and, in time, root him
from existence. Experimentally he searched the moon; then, with more
assurance, invaded the fourth planet.

Mars was flat, worn, a waterless waste of fine red dust--an old,
old planet where the forces of gradation had reached near balance.
Ixmal gridded the red planet into a system of squares and ingeniously
enclosed the polar areas with interlocking triangles, then opened his
search. (A new system allowed him to focus his remote receptors in the
center of each grid, expanding the focal point to cover the entire
area. By this method he would be able to complete the task in just
under five hundred earth years.)

Shifting sands periodically uncovered the artifacts of long-vanished
makers. But all was silence. Mars was a tomb. He persisted, invading
every crevice, every nook, exploring every molecule (for Ixmal knew
the mind-force potential. Indeed, Zale-3 might be as minute as the
single-cell protozoa of his own brackish seas. Never mind, he would
find him.) In the end he surrendered, baffled. Zale-3 was not on Mars.
