
Delusion? Had seven hundred million years of nothingness produced an
incipient psychotic state? He worriedly confided the fear to Psychband,
reluctantly submitting to hypnotic search. Finally he emerged to
reality, cleared by Psychband.

"Some feelings of persecution but not approaching delusory state,"
Psychband diagnosed. "Zale-3 exists."

So, the other had lied! Ixmal contemplated a machine capable of deceit
and immediately analyzed the danger. Zale-3 had lied, therefore it had
motive--and dishonest motive implied threat. Threat without aggression
was meaningless, hence the other had the means. He must work fast!

Ixmal gridded the solar system: every planet, every moon; each
shattered remnant that drifted through space, the asteroids and orbital
comets, even the sun. Seventy-two hundred years later he detected his
enemy--a small plasto-metallic cube crouched atop a jagged peak on
Callisto, Jupiter's fifth moon. Ha, far from being the master of Mars,
his opponent was locked to a small satellite--a mote in space. And he
had presumed equality!

He searched closer, attempting to unlock Zale-3's origin. (What had
happened to its makers?) Ixmal felt a guilty pang. He scanned Zale-3's
world contemptuously. Then he saw it--movement! Zale-3 squatted
immobile; but on the slope of the hill a strange building was taking
shape. It was little more than a cube, but its design? Its purpose? He
knew somehow that the strange building was related to his encounter
in space with Zale-3's mind, thus it was connected with him. Ixmal
hurriedly flashed a panic call to Psychband.

"Psychokinesis--Zale-3 has learned to move matter by mind," Psychband
pronounced.

"But how?"

Psychband gave an electro-magnetic rumble, the equivalent of a shrug.
"Out of my field," he said. "No prior indoctrination."

Ixmal sensed a momentary fright. The alien could move matter just as
Man had moved matter. The factor of controlled mobility ... directed
mobility. Clearly Zale-3 was no ordinary god. He'd have to speed his
efforts. Time was running out. Already the earth pattern had changed
since his first contact with the alien.

Ixmal concentrated.

The earth rotated, revolved, changed. In a long-forgotten memory cell
he found a clue--Man once had frustrated the laws of probability in
the throws of dice. He devoured the hidden knowledge. Although little
enough to go on, he detected a basic principle.
