
In somewhat over half a million years he was able to sway flowers,
move leaves against the wind, make small shrubs tremble. In less than
half that time again he felled a huge tree and wrested ores from the
earth. (An age of vulcanism had come and gone; the Atlantic coast
was an igneous shelf, reptiles towered above the earth.) In another
half million years he possessed the machines, raw materials and
robot workers he needed. (The latter were designed to perform purely
mechanical tasks, menial things he couldn't be bothered with. He had
much to do. And ages were passing.) He saved time by enclosing his work
area in a force field to protect the delicate machinery against the
elements. In that respect he had bested the alien.

Ixmal started the ultimate weapon. Occasionally he would halt work
long enough to scan Callisto. He gloated, noting that his enemy was
having difficulty procuring the necessary fissionable material. He
had a Belgian Congo full. (What did that term mean? Somehow it was an
expression from long ago. The Man he had been fond of had used it.)

Ixmal's weapon rapidly took shape. Thanks to the ancient scientist's
formula, he had merely to improve the warhead and construct its
carrier--a rocket to blast Zale-3 from existence. (But eons were
passing. Soft warm winds bathed his batholith and an occasional
tyrannosaur paused to stare dumbly from the nearby swamp.) Psychband
increased his irritation by calling attention to the formidable
dimensions of this new animal.

"Destroy them, Ixmal, before life gets too big."

"Bah, they're mindless," he scoffed. "They're evolutionary toys--freaks
from the mire."

"So was Man," Psychband observed.

"And Man is dust," Ixmal reminded. "Besides, I could destroy the very
mountain with thought alone. Who dares give challenge?"

Ixmal discovered that Zale-3 had solved his fissionable problem: he
was using psychokinesis to haul ore from Jupiter's methane deeps. A
startling thought struck him: Zale-3 wouldn't need a rocket carrier.
Of course, he would power his warhead by mental force. Why hadn't he
thought of that? The ages wasted when every second might prove vital.
He'd have to hurry.
