
He ceased work, abandoning the half-completed rocket and concentrated
on improving his psychokinetic techniques. (Dinosaurs disappeared, the
earth trembled under the foot of the mammoth.) Ixmal momentarily was
appalled to discover a strange man-form dwelling among distant crags.
He was hulking, grotesque, but he walked erect--the first of his kind.
But no time now.

Ixmal tore trees from the earth and hurled them vast distances. He
tumbled hills into valleys, held great crags suspended in the heavens,
tore North and South America asunder; reshaped continents until, one
day, he knew the mind force was his. He could reverse the very moon in
its orbit! He concentrated on the bomb.

Finally the ultimate weapon was ready, the creation of long-ago Man
plus ten billion. (Because there was no poetry in Ixmal's soul, he
conceived solely in terms of cause and effect: he named the weapon
"Star-Blaster.")

Ixmal moved the great weapon into position and rapidly calculated
the Earth-Callisto relationship, projecting the space ratio in terms
of velocity, distance, gravities. No need to pinpoint the alien's
plasto-metallic body: the whole of Callisto would vanish, reduced to
cosmic dust under the bomb's furious impact. (A feathered bird sang
from a tree. The trill liquid sound infuriated Ixmal, but he ended it.
A puff of feathers drifted down through the leaves. The robin had sung
of spring.)

Ha! Ixmal exulted, following his precise calculations. At the exact
ten-thousandths of a second he concentrated five billion thought units.
Winds rushed into the spot where the bomb had stood, and for a long
moment the forests trembled. (At the base of the batholith several of
the strange man-forms chattered excitedly: the concept of a god was
born.)

Ixmal gloatingly followed "Star-Blaster's" course. He saw it hurtle
past the moon, watched while for a split second it formed one apex
of an equilateral triangle with Mars and earth, reveled as it drove
through the belt of asteroids. Ha, the alien was doomed. His very atoms
would be flung to the stars. He was watching "Star-Blaster" when....

Ixmal recoiled, disbelieving, then terrified. A great warhead hurtled
through the belt of asteroids, earth-bound, driven at unbelievable
velocity by the mind of Zale-3. Ixmal frantically calculated, pounding
his circuits to produce answers in split thousandths of a second.
Frenzied, he analyzed his findings: the warhead would strike his very
body.
