
If the mayor of Marston Hill would cooperate, it would save Masefield
Truggles a lot of work and possibly some unpleasantness for everyone.
Sometimes mayors did cooperate, especially when elections weren't far
off.

Truggles was not offended that Mayor Ben Sands received him in the
garden of his home on the edge of town. He had known many fine
gentlemen with dirt on their hands who abhorred dirt in the mind.

"I haven't seen Blan much lately, but he used to spend a lot of time
out here," said Sands, taking his battered pipe from his mouth to
speak. "He was interested in the flowers. Those asters, now. They're
tetraploid. He developed 'em. Used colchicine."

He looked at Truggles inquiringly, to see if he understood. Truggles
allowed a smile to quirk his lips and shook his head slightly.

"Extract from the autumn crocus," said Sands. "Makes plants tend to
double their chromosomes."

Around them, the garden was a solid blaze of color. Zinnias, marigolds,
phlox cast their colorful bounty to the air.

"I'm afraid I'm not much of a horticulturist," apologized Truggles.

"Well, it's like this," said Sands. "Every cell of every plant of the
same species has the same number of chromosomes--you know, those bright
little threads that hold the guiding genes of growth and development.
Mutations in plants come when there are changes in individual genes
from time to time. But when you hit them with colchicine, the
chromosomes sometimes double without the cell dividing. Creates a
new species, usually bigger, stronger, slower growing. Call them
tetraploids. I've heard it called 'cataclysmic evolution.'"

"You mean man tampers with the basic laws of nature?" asked Truggles,
awed and disturbed.

"I reckon you could call it that. Lots of plants have been treated that
way--tomatoes, snapdragons, alyssum. Of course, it happens naturally,
too. Wheat developed from the crossing of an inferior early species,
einkorn, with a wild grass. Einkorn and the grass had seven chromosomes
each, but in crossing the chromosomes were doubled. The result was
Persian wheat, a superior variety with 14 chromosomes."

Sands took the pipe from his mouth and knocked the ashes out against
the sole of his shoe. Pulling a sack of tobacco thoughtfully from his
hip pocket, he began to refill it.

"Blan had a theory," he said, "that doubling of chromosomes in animals
in the past could have given rise to new species and explain a lot of
gaps in evolution. Man has 48 chromosomes in every cell, and Blan
pointed out to me that 48 is double 24, which is double 12, which is
double six, which is double three. He thought that was too much of a
coincidence. I reckon I do, too."

He paused and struck a wooden match, holding it against the bowl of his
pipe and sucking noisily.

"I don't hold with the evolutionary theory," said Truggles stiffly.
"What I really wanted to ask you, Mayor Sands, was whether you are
aware that Blan Forsythe is practicing polygamy, right here in Marston
Hill?"

"You've been listening to those old hens gossip," accused Sands.
"Look, I knew Blan right well when he was married to Phyllis Allison.
Phyllis is my niece and I was sorry to see them break up, but the
young people have to live their own lives. Blan has some ideas us old
stick-in-the-muds might not understand, Mr. Truggles, but he's all
right."

"A dozen women live with him in that big house of his," insisted
Truggles. "I've found out there's a turnover, too. When one moves out,
another moves in."

"I don't poke my nose into other people's business," said Sands
bluntly. "But Dr. Allison tells me Blan maintains a staff, and it's
convenient for them to live in that big house. He's doing biological
research, along the lines I just explained."

"Biological research, I have no doubt," said Truggles, assuming his
best organ-like tone. He fixed his blue eyes on Sands, but Sands' eyes
were just as blue. They showed a gleam of anger. "You refuse to take
any action against this abomination, then, Mayor?"

"I refuse to believe idle rumors," said Sands firmly. "And before
you attempt to stir things up around here with your Social Standards
Protective League, Mr. Truggles, I would recommend that you make some
effort to secure accurate information. Dr. Allison is Blan's research
assistant, and he can tell you much more of Blan's current experiments
than I can."

Truggles bowed slightly and turned away. The sharp scent of the
marigolds tickled his nostrils, making him want to sneeze.

"Dr. Allison," said Sands behind him, raising his voice slightly as
Truggles walked away, "may even consent to tell you why Blan Forsythe's
face is liver-colored. From what I hear of you, Mr. Truggles, that
probably is your principal complaint against him."

Truggles straightened as though stabbed between the shoulder blades. He
quickened his pace.

That had been a telling blow. Could Sands know? No, it was impossible.
The recurring waves of time and travel had long since obliterated
Truggles' distant past. The Brazilian was a secret demon in his own
heart, his private, bitter hatred, the swarthy ogre who had crushed the
flower of his life and whose face arose to torment him only in times of
bitterness.

Sands was an idiot. All of these people in Marston Hill were idiots,
letting a man like Forsythe fool them, liking him, looking up to him.
They were empty shells, people, to be possessed alike by the strong,
whether angel or demon. He, Truggles, would pit his strength against
Forsythe.

As for Sands....

Old fool! Entrenched politician! Truggles had dealt with such civic
laxity before. Direct action would be necessary.
