
There was a touch of frost on the grass the evening Masefield Truggles
went again to the Allison home. Dr. Alex Allison, a chubby man with
rimless spectacles, admitted him.

Truggles caught a glimpse of Phyllis Allison and the boy, Donald, in
the kitchen as Allison led him through the dining room. They mounted a
short flight of stairs to Allison's study.

Allison offered him wine and a cigar. Truggles refused. Allison placed
the wine decanter back on the shelf unopened, but lit a cigar and
settled back comfortably in his chair.

"Well, Mr. Truggles?" he asked briskly, with the air of a man who had
no time to waste. Truggles looked him over, assessing him, and decided
on the direct attack.

"I wonder if you are aware, Dr. Allison," he said softly, "that your
employer is breaking up your home?"

He waited for the reaction. There was none. Allison puffed calmly on
his cigar and waited. The light glinted from his spectacles as he kept
his eyes fixed steadily on Truggles' face.

"Dr. Allison, your wife confessed to me that she still loves her former
husband, Blan Forsythe," said Truggles, emphasizing every word.

"I was aware of that," said Allison unconcernedly. "Most women who know
Blan are desperately in love with him. Is that all you came to see me
about?"

He half rose from his chair. Truggles made a hurried gesture of
protest. He realized he had tried to move too fast.

"No, no," said Truggles hastily. "Forgive me, Dr. Allison, but I was
agitated over the situation. What I really came here for was to ask you
to give me some information about Mr. Forsythe."

"Why?" asked Allison.

The flat question caught Truggles unprepared. He was aware that his
mouth hung open foolishly as he tried desperately to frame an answer
that would not be too revealing.

"Why--I was trying to lay to rest some rumors," he stammered at last.
"Mayor Sands said you might tell me something about Mr. Forsythe."

Allison was silent for a long minute. He took the cigar from his mouth,
knocked half an inch of ash into an ashtray and resumed his puffing.

"Mr. Truggles, how much do you know about mice?" Allison asked.

Truggles stared at him, unable to answer. This interview was beginning
to take on a nightmarish aspect.

"What do you consider to be the principal difference between mice and
men, Mr. Truggles?" pursued Allison.

"Really, Dr. Allison, I don't see--I don't know what point you're
trying to make, but a mouse is an animal and a man is--well, a man."

"Nothing else?"

"Well, a man is bigger than a mouse." He began to feel familiar ground
under his feet. "A man is bigger more ways than physically. He is
bigger spiritually, emotionally. He thinks. He has a--"

"Ben Sands told me about his talk with you. So you don't believe in
evolution? You don't believe the ancestors of men and monkeys came from
a common stock?"

"I do not, sir. It is inconceivable...."

"How would mice strike you, then? Would you rather believe that men
descended from mice than monkeys?"

Again the bewildered Truggles found himself physically incapable of
answering.

"I have done a great deal of research, with the kind assistance of
Blan Forsythe," said Allison precisely. "Blan is my friend. He has
been my associate, even my experimental animal. I am preparing a paper
on what I consider a revolutionary contribution to the theory of
evolution--that men are related directly to the genus _rodentia_, and
only more distantly so to the primates.

"Blan Forsythe is the real originator of this theory, as a result of
his very personal interest in sudden evolutionary changes through
doubling of chromosomes. It is reasonable to suppose that the ancestor
of man himself, with all of his survival advantages, arose through such
a process. Man has 48 chromosomes. Now, Mr. Truggles, what sort of
animal would you guess has half that number--24 chromosomes?"

"Mice?" hazarded Truggles thinly.

"Precisely. Mice. The common house mouse. There is also a variety of
squirrel that carries 24 chromosomes. The _peromyscus_ and _apodemus_
families of mice--and some other animals, including the rhesus
monkey--have 48--cousins whose chromosome doubling eons ago started
them up different paths from ours. Mr. Truggles, the ancestor of man
was a rodent whose doubled chromosomes gave him new attributes that
worked to his evolutionary advantage."

"Is that what is called a mutation?" asked Truggles, interested in
spite of himself.

"Mutation? A mutation is a change in one gene. Men mutate every day.
How many millions upon millions of years do you think it would take
simple mutations to build a man from a rodent--or a lemur, either, for
that matter?"

"Well, really, Dr. Allison, I believe you misunderstand what I
asked you. Your theory is fine, I'm sure, among scientists, but I'm
interested in information about Blan Forsythe."

"That's what I've given you. Blan Forsythe is a tetraploid man. His
cells carry 96 chromosomes instead of the normal 48. Every cell of his
body is doubled."

"Is that why his skin is liver-colored?" asked Truggles, remembering
what Sands had said.

Allison smiled.

"Coincidence," he said. "It's true that liver cells have doubled
chromosomes, but that isn't the reason for the color."

"What does all this mean, then?" asked Truggles.

Allison laid his half-smoked cigar carefully on the edge of the ashtray
and gazed at Truggles through his spectacles.

"Blan Forsythe is a new species," he said slowly. "He is not man.
Everyone has theorized that a superman might arise from a mutation,
perhaps caused by radiation. My God, a hundred mutations of individual
genes wouldn't make a superman overnight! But Blan Forsythe is one--a
tetraploid man--a superman."

"And what is a superman, Dr. Allison?" asked Truggles drily, thinking
of Nietzsche and the Sunday comic strips.

"Who knows? How can you and I comprehend the novel qualities, the
undreamed-of abilities of such a creature? Do you think a mouse could
understand a man's ability to reason, to talk, to build machines? Blan
may not realize them himself. After all, he was reared in a human
society, and no doubt the tetraploid rodent which is our ancestor
seemed little different from his associates. There are two things I'm
sure of: the differences are there, and they are qualities you and I
could never point to and say, 'This is an ability of the superman.'"

Truggles' mouth twisted in a crooked smile. Allison had allowed his
enthusiasm to draw him out. Allison was vulnerable now.

"And because this man--this creature--is different, you allow him to
cuckold you?" he demanded in a low, ugly voice.

Allison was not vulnerable.

"Don't let Phyllis mislead you," he said quietly. "She thinks Donald
is Blan's child because she always yearned to give Blan the child he
wanted. Donald was born two years after they were divorced."

"She seems very sure," insinuated Truggles.

"It is possible for a tetraploid to be fertile in a mating with a
normal diploid," said Allison. "Persian wheat, with 14 chromosomes,
crossed with a grass which has seven chromosomes, to produce common
wheat. That was Blan's hope while he and Phyllis were married, and it's
still his hope with the others. I was his doctor and associate then, as
I am now. Neither Phyllis nor Donald has more than the normal number of
chromosomes, and Blan has not seen Phyllis since they were divorced."

"What, then, Dr. Allison, is this 'Power' that your wife says the boy
has?"

Allison's face froze.

"That is a family matter, Mr. Truggles," he said icily. "I do not
discuss my son's characteristics with strangers. Good night, sir."

Truggles saw Phyllis Allison as he left the house. Dr. Allison remained
in his study when Truggles left, and Phyllis stepped from the darkened
doorway of the dining room as Truggles opened the front door.

"Mr. Truggles," she said, placing her hand on his arm, "I don't know
what your object is, but don't make any trouble for Blan Forsythe."

"My poor child, I am not trying to make trouble for him," said Truggles
sadly. "I hope only to convince him that his unfortunate differences do
not privilege him to flout the sound social customs of other men. If
there is any trouble, it will be made by the man himself."

"You'll see him, then?"

"Certainly, I intend to try to convince him personally that what he is
doing is wrong."

She sighed.

"I wish I could see him again," she murmured.

For this unhappy woman's sake if for no other reason, it would
certainly be the thing to do to talk to Forsythe himself, Truggles
thought as he left the house. The anticipation had a certain zest to
it. Besides, Truggles believed in being fair. He always liked to give a
man a chance to reform voluntarily, to bow to his righteous persuasion.

As for Allison, Truggles detested a man like that. The "scientific"
mind, always so sure of its own theories. Such men could not see beyond
the material, into the living realm of possession and power, the
struggle between good and evil.

This theory that Forsythe was a superior creature ... Truggles shivered
with resentment. Man was the apex, the conqueror--the conqueror through
his service to the good way, the right way, through his militant
demand that things be good and right.

A superior being. Truggles trembled again, this time overwhelmed by a
feeling he hated, the feeling of inferiority. It swept over him from
long, long ago, that bitter night when he had stood in tears before the
Brazilian, when he had implored on his knees the only woman he had ever
loved.

Something small and dark scurried across the walk in front of him.

Mice, he thought. The idea that man descended from a mouse was even
more repellant than that man descended from monkey. But, if evolution
had any basis in fact, mice might have certain claims. They lived in
human habitations, they ate human foods. Their psychology was studied
in mazes, and their physical makeup made them good subjects for
experimentation in human diseases.

Mice. Truggles shrugged and walked on.
