
Masefield Truggles had seen Blan Forsythe at a distance, walking along
the streets of Marston Hill, but Forsythe's appearance at close range
was a severe shock.

The tetraploid man's skin was, as Sands and Allison had described it,
the deep red color and texture of liver. His hair was short, mole-gray
fur over the top of his head, and his eyes were a jade green that
glowed with inner fires. Truggles was a tall man, but Forsythe stood a
head taller and was massively built.

Forsythe's rugged features were not repulsive, when one became
accustomed to their hue. Still, Truggles could not understand how a
woman could be attracted to him. But the adoration that shone from the
eyes of the pretty secretary who escorted him into Forsythe's office
was unmistakable.

It was a spacious office, on the second floor of the mansion
Truggles had passed so often. Why a man needed a business office to
conduct private biological research was something Truggles could not
understand, but this one would have fitted very well in a metropolitan
skyscraper.

The weight of the pistol in its shoulder holster was comforting to
Truggles. Others might not believe Forsythe dangerous. He did. He was
protected.

"I understand you are determined to run me out of town, Mr. Truggles,"
said Forsythe pleasantly, leaning back in his swivel chair and putting
his fingertips together. With his back to the window, his face was in
slight shadow and he looked like a well-tanned business executive.

"You either have a well-organized spy network or some of the strange
powers your associates attribute to you, Mr. Forsythe," replied
Truggles easily. It would have been easier to deal with a man who did
not exhibit such self-confidence, who was a little worried and nervous,
but everyone seemed to be conspiring to make this project difficult for
Truggles.

Forsythe smiled, and his teeth were white as shining ivory in his dark
face.

"My extraordinary powers don't lie along those lines," he said. "I'd be
obliged to someone who could tell me along what lines they do lie. I've
had flashes of them from time to time, but I'm afraid they couldn't be
explained to you."

"I don't want to see you run out of town, Mr. Forsythe," said Truggles.
"I came here in the hope of offering you friendship and help. The
people of Marston Hill are disturbed--I might say, aroused--at your
insistence on polygamous practices. I hope to persuade you to abandon
such unsocial behavior, so I may have some background for reasoning
with them in your behalf."

Truggles expected the usual retort--that the people of the town had
minded their own business (i.e., been blind to what was going on) until
Truggles came to town. Instead, Forsythe said:

"I have conformed to human social standards. My formal religious
affiliation is Mohammedan."

Truggles quivered with shock.

"Mohammedan!" he exclaimed, possibly more outraged by that than by his
original suspicion of polygamy.

"The Koran allows us four wives, Mr. Truggles. The rest must be
concubines."

"You admit it! You admit that your so-called research is only a blind
for a den of iniquity!"

Forsythe rose, and stepped from behind his desk. Suddenly alarmed,
Truggles cringed. Forsythe was a very big man. Truggles' fingers
strayed toward the shoulder holster. But Forsythe smiled.

"The research is genuine," he said. "Come with me, Mr. Truggles. I'd
like for you to meet several of my wives. You may ask them questions if
you wish."

He took the nervous Truggles firmly by the arm, lifted him almost
bodily from his chair and escorted him into the anteroom. The pretty
secretary looked up from her desk.

"Mr. Truggles, this is Trella, my youngest wife," said Forsythe.
"Fortunately, she has had secretarial training, so she fits well in
this office."

The young woman smiled at Truggles, without embarrassment. He was not
so fortunate. He dropped his eyes, the deep blue eyes that had so often
been the nemesis of evil-doers.

"You said I might question the--the young lady?" he murmured.

Forsythe laughed.

"I'll leave so you may feel more free," he said, and went back into his
office.

Truggles looked upon Trella Forsythe with more self-assurance. She was
a pert, brown-eyed blonde, in her early twenties. Remembering Phyllis
Allison, Truggles could not but admire Forsythe's appreciation of
beauty.

"How long have you been married to Mr. Forsythe, Mrs.--uh, Miss
Trella?" he asked.

"Only about six months," she answered. "I hope I'll prove satisfactory."

"Satisfactory?"

"I don't want to have to leave Blan after two years," she said. "I love
him."

"My dear child, how can you love a man who has a dozen other wives? How
can you lower yourself to be part of such a scheme?"

"Why is it that some men never understand women?" she countered, a
little angrily. "A woman may be jealous of her man's other loves, but
if he's a real man the thing that matters is that he loves _her_. I get
along fine with Blan's other wives. We have something in common--we all
love him."

Truggles resisted a strong temptation to attempt to convert her to
sanity on the spot. His powers of convincing women were potent ones,
as experience had proved. But, in this case, the root of the evil was
Forsythe himself and there was no point in wasting any time on the
wives.

Truggles had expected Forsythe to conduct him on a tour of what he
already had labeled, in his mind, "the harem." But Forsythe remained
closeted in his office, and it was Trella who escorted Truggles through
a portion of the building.

They met three other women, busy at various tasks, all of them
young and attractive. Truggles questioned them briefly. He found
substantially the same reaction he had received from Trella.

When they had mounted the wide stairs again, on their way back to the
office, Truggles was introduced to another wife, Lois. The door of a
room stood ajar as they came to it, and he happened to see her sitting
inside, weeping.

He thought Trella appeared reluctant when he stopped and pushed open
the door, but she did not protest.

"Why are you weeping, my child?" asked Truggles, after he had talked
with her for a moment.

"I must leave," she explained. "I've been married to Blan two years
tomorrow, and I haven't given him a child."

"That's the most inhuman thing I ever heard of!" he exclaimed. "Do you
mean to say he gives you this little time of happiness, and then if you
don't produce progeny for him he casts you off like an old shoe?"

"It's Dr. Allison's advice to him," said Lois. "Dr. Allison thinks it
would be bad for him to have too many wives around at one time, and he
considers two years long enough to prove certainly whether a woman can
be fertile with Blan. I'm not the first. I won't be the last. But it's
hard to have to go away and never see him again."

These women he had seen today, these wives of Forsythe: they aroused
no bitter feelings in Truggles. He felt clean and strong talking to
them. They were like the many women to whom he had held out sympathy
and understanding over the years, who had been stubborn and wilful at
first, only to melt at last and see the truth. If only he could get
them from Forsythe's influence, he thought he could save these women.

Truggles turned to Trella.

"Do you see what's in store for you, young woman?" he demanded. "Do you
still think it's worth ruining your life to live here in sin with this
man?"

"I may be different," she answered calmly. "And if I'm not, tell me,
Mr. Truggles: does a mouse have the right to question the motives of a
man?"
