
Truggles went back into Forsythe's office. The tetraploid man had
swung his chair away from his desk and was staring moodily out the big
window. He inclined his head at Truggles' entrance, but did not speak.

"Forsythe, this has been the most amazing, the most revolting,
revelation I have ever experienced," opened Truggles. His indignation
fueled his courage now, and his voice held the commanding resonance of
a pipe organ. "You claim to be superhuman. I say you are inhuman, to
force these poor young women to live in servitude, sharing you with
each other, and then to discard them with brutal unconcern when you
find they cannot fulfill your insane dream of foisting others of your
kind on the earth!"

"They love me and I have a great affection for all of them," said
Forsythe, not turning. "I provide for them when they leave me. Because
the great experience of love cannot last a lifetime, should it be
denied altogether?"

The ancient bitterness swept over Truggles in a consuming wave. Yes,
yes, cried his soul, far better never to have loved, never to have
known the meaning of love, than to have it snatched from the grasp
in full flower! Forsythe was a monster. How could he know? Did the
superman have telepathic powers? Or was it again chance, this dropping
of a remark that burned deep into his writhing memories?

Forsythe's face was turned from him. One shot and this incredible
thing, this liver-hued monstrosity that sat before him would be removed
from the face of the earth. Truggles put his hand inside his coat. The
butt of the pistol was cool under his fingers.

No. A murderer in prison has no influence. He cannot battle evil,
recruiting to his shining leadership an army of righteous people.
Truggles dropped his hand to his lap and said calmly:

"You speak as though they could love no one else. Is polygamy, then, to
be a characteristic of the long-heralded superman?"

"Polygamy and monogamy, as such, have no moral values, for man or
superman," replied Forsythe, speaking to the window. "Polygamy was a
part of man's social scheme for centuries. Monogamy has been replacing
it as a more desirable scheme; but to attribute moral values to it is
propaganda. I challenge you to find an edict against polygamy in the
basic writings of any religion--Christianity, Judaism, any of them.
Remember Solomon? Monogamy has the advantage of closer companionship
between man and woman, and for that reason I would prefer it."

A great thrill shot through Truggles' breast at these words. Was it
possible that Forsythe had weakened? Was it possible that he could lead
this strange man back to the path of truth?

"Why not give it up, Forsythe?" he asked in a low, compelling voice.
"Why not eschew your dream of a new race and leave such things to
higher powers? Send these poor women back to their homes and turn back
to your one true, legal wife, Phyllis, and your son."

Forsythe swung to face him. The green eyes were deep and haunted.

"Don't you think that's what I would prefer, above all else?" he asked
in a low voice. "Perhaps you didn't know it, but I married Phyllis
before I knew I was--different; other than my appearance, I mean. The
genuine love of a man for a woman does not die. Do you think even
a superman--it's your term, Truggles, not mine--enjoys loneliness?
The worship of other women, my affection for them as human beings,
can't fill the gap left by the loss of someone who shared complete
understanding with me."

He laughed shortly.

"Besides," he added, "you're trying to talk me into committing an
immoral act, Truggles. You forget that Phyllis is Dr. Allison's wife
now, and Donald is Dr. Allison's son."

Truggles brushed that aside.

"That's no excuse for what you're doing," he said.

"One of the major duties of any individual, of whatever species, is
to reproduce his kind, if he can," answered Forsythe soberly. "In the
human community, safe as a race through its very numbers, that has been
lost sight of and overlaid with social responsibilities. I'm different.
I can't ignore it.

"How was the misconception ever begotten that a superman--again, it's
your term, not mine--would merely mate with the daughters of men
and, lo! a new race? The superman is a new species. Species do not
interbreed fertilely very often, even when closely related.

"Dr. Allison found I was tetraploid, while Phyllis and I were still
married. He and I have been searching for a tetraploid woman, without
success. Meanwhile, I try and still hope for fertile matings with a
normal diploid woman, for the tetraploid has been fertile with the
diploid sometimes in plants.

"No, Donald can't be my son, whatever Phyllis says. There's more
involved than the time of his birth--two years after our divorce. Dr.
Allison has tested him, and Donald has the normal 48 chromosomes."

"Can't you accept the verdict of nature, Forsythe?" demanded Truggles.
"If you were born a eunuch, you could never reproduce."

"While there's hope, I have the responsibility," said Forsythe slowly.
"If the stream of life is to progress, something greater than man must
arise from him. I know, Truggles--I _know_--I am that superior thing.
And I think back in history to the geniuses, the superior men, who died
without progeny and I wonder how many of them were tetraploid, as I am,
but could not pass on their new abilities to the world."

Truggles shook his head angrily and arose.

"You can't succeed by flouting the social conventions man has built
up," he said stiffly. "I'm afraid you'll find that out to your sorrow,
Forsythe."

His mind caressed the gun inside his coat pocket. Such a direct
solution appealed to him. But he resisted it. There was a better, safer
way. He turned his back on Forsythe and left.

As he walked past the Allison home, and covered half a block toward
town, seething inwardly at Forsythe's stubbornness; a woman arose from
a sidewalk bench to accost him. It was Lois, Forsythe's dark-haired
wife to whom he had talked while she wept half an hour earlier.

"Why, Mrs. For--Miss Lois!" he exclaimed. "What are you doing here? Did
you escape?"

"Escape?" she repeated. Her eyes were shadowed from weeping. "Blan
doesn't keep us prisoners. We come and go as we please. It's just that
most of us prefer not to go out into town."

"I can understand that," he said drily. "Can I help you, Miss Lois?"

"Perhaps I can help myself, by helping you. Mr. Truggles, aren't you
trying to stop Blan from keeping more than one wife?"

"I am, indeed. I expect to seek an indictment against him on bigamy
charges."

"You won't succeed. He'll just sue you for false arrest, and ruin you.
You don't think Blan would overlook something like that, do you? None
of the girls would admit they lived with him as his wives. I wouldn't
either, if it would hurt Blan."

Truggles was taken aback. After a moment, he asked: "What did you have
in mind?"

"Nothing. But I thought if I could help you persuade him--as the wife
who's been with him longest, I'd be the one to stay, wouldn't I?"

Thinking of an unknown number of others who might have been sent away
previously, Truggles was inclined to doubt it. But he would not let
such an opinion interfere with this opportunity.

"Probably," he said. "Will you help me if I promise to take no legal
action against Forsythe?"

"What do you want me to do?" she asked.

"You say you're free to come and go as you please?"

"Yes."

"I just want you to tell the truth about what he's doing, as I've
learned it, at a few meetings of good, sympathetic citizens during the
next few weeks."

"I'll do it if you're sure it won't hurt Blan in any way," she said.

"I'm positive it won't," Truggles lied.
