
The Social Standards Protective League was a small organization,
composed largely of elderly women and a few men. Masefield Truggles had
never meant for it to serve as anything more than a nucleus. Before he
lit the flame, he spent a week building up his tinder pile.

He announced, by word of mouth and through the columns of _The
Clarion_, Marston Hill's small daily newspaper, that the Social
Standards Protective League would hold a series of special meetings
every afternoon for a week. The public would be welcome, he said, and
there would be startling revelations of vice conditions in Marston
Hill. Truggles rented the city's ancient, rickety auditorium for the
meetings, and invited Mayor Ben Sands to speak at the first one.

Lois Forsythe sat on the platform that first afternoon, but Truggles
did not call on her. Sands made a routine talk, the kind any mayor
of a small town might, on the conscientiousness of Marston Hill's
three-man police force, the lack of crime in the town, the recreational
facilities and educational methods being utilized to see that the young
people did not stray on the wrong path. He received polite applause.

When he had finished, Truggles arose and said:

"Sometimes after talks of this kind, we throw our meetings open to
questions from the audience. Instead, I would like to ask Mayor Sands
one question. Does he recall that I complained to him not long ago
about the activities of Blan Forsythe, and what the tenor of the
conversation was?"

"Why, yes," answered Sands, surprised. "You accused Blan of practicing
polygamy. I told you that you'd been listening to too much gossip, and
that Blan was doing biological research. I don't believe these good
people would be interested in the nature of the research."

"I do," answered Truggles, "and it will be the subject of tomorrow's
meeting. I have investigated these experiments, and they are well worth
hearing about. Thank you, Mr. Mayor."

Truggles was a past master at building tension. The next day, he
apologized for changing the program and gave a lecture on polygamy in
human society. Backgrounded with considerable research at the Marston
Hill public library, he described polygamy in Biblical times, in savage
communities, in China and the Mohammedan world and among the early
Mormons in the United States. He told of the social objections to
polygamy and the progress made in eliminating it as a way of life.

The following day, he described Forsythe's research with tetraploid
plants--not too accurately, but that didn't matter with this
audience--and skillfully translated chromosome doubling into human
terms until his final revelation that Forsythe was a tetraploid man
left them gasping. And, the fourth day, he told, with some embroidery,
of Forsythe's polygamy.

During each of these talks, Lois sat on the stage. Polygamy was a
known, routine affair to her. Truggles was able to word his talks so
that, to Lois, his revelations appeared calm and unbiased; but at the
same time they were insinuating and inflammatory to his audiences, to
whom polygamy was something strange and monstrous.

During none of the first four talks did he call on Lois. But at the end
of the fourth, he announced:

"I have described to you what Forsythe told me himself. Perhaps you
have been wondering who this attractive young lady is. She is none
other than one of Forsythe's multiple wives, and tomorrow evening you
shall hear a description of a polygamous household from her own lips."

The first meeting had contained only the members of the small group
which Truggles himself had organized, and two or three visitors
attracted by the mayor's presence. But such words as "polygamy,"
"harem," "strange research," "monstrous plants and people" got around,
as Truggles intended they should. The audience grew by leaps and
bounds. By the night of the final meeting, the old auditorium was
filled to overflowing; they were standing in the aisles.

Calmly, and yet not without some hint of the tragedy she herself
felt, Lois described the day-to-day life of Forsythe's household; the
friendship among the wives, their jealousies, their hopes and regrets.
She did not realize that her words, like those of Truggles the day
before, were building anger in the breasts of her hearers at something
they had not experienced and could not understand.

When she had finished, Truggles took the stage, and now the calmness,
the factualness, was gone from him.

"You have heard what this poor woman told you!" he cried. "You have
heard how this man, this Forsythe, took advantage of her. Remember, her
sisters are as unfortunate as she. Shall this lecher, this monster, go
unpunished?"

Before he could say more, Lois was on her feet.

"Mr. Truggles, wait!" she exclaimed. "You told me you were going to try
to get Blan to give up polygamy. I wouldn't have come here and helped
you if I'd known you were going to try to arouse his friends against
him!"

"My poor child, it's too late," answered Truggles loudly. "I tried
to persuade the man to give up his life of sin, and his heart was as
stone. He must feel the lash of just retribution!"

She stared at him, her eyes widening in slow realization. Then she
burst into tears and ran from the stage. She fled down the aisle and
out of the auditorium.

"Do you see?" cried Truggles to his audience. His blue eyes flashed and
his voice rang like a trumpet. "Even now she cannot break his devilish
hold on her! Think! Are your daughters safe from him? Are your wives,
even? Do you know that the wife of his best friend, Dr. Allison, admits
that her child is the child of this man, this monster?"

For five minutes, he shouted, he wept, he shook his fists, he raised
his hands to heaven. Then, striding to the edge of the platform, he
demanded in a low, compelling tone:

"Who will take up the sword of righteousness and go with me to drive
this creature from our midst?"

For a moment, there was dead silence. Then a young man stood up in the
middle of the auditorium.

"By God, I will!" he shouted.

"I reckon I will, too," called an older man near the rear. One by
one, then all at once, they were on their feet, shouting and milling
around. Truggles leaped from the stage and forced his way through the
crowd to the door. They surged out of the auditorium at his heels and
poured down the middle of the street toward the home of Blan Forsythe,
yelling.

With Truggles in the lead, the excited citizens swept onto the broad
lawn in front of the big mansion, spread out over the grass, trampling
the flower beds. There were fifty to a hundred of them.

Porch lights went on all over the neighborhood. From the same direction
from which the crowd had come, two figures ran across the yards in the
dimness and, circling the edge of the crowd, came up to Truggles. He
recognized Phyllis Allison and her son, Donald.

"What is this, Mr. Truggles?" she cried, peering into his face. "What
are all these people doing?"

"I'm sorry you came here, Mrs. Allison," he answered, shouting to make
himself heard over the uproar of the people around them. "These people
are determined to right the wrong this man has done you."

Outside lights from the mansion suddenly lit the entire lawn, and the
mob that stirred restlessly on it. A momentary silence fell. Their
numbers did not seem as great, their ranks not so solid, in the glare
of the lights.

"Come on, Forsythe!" shouted Truggles in a great voice. "Come out and
face your judges!"

The front door opened and Allison stepped out on the railinged porch.
Truggles, at the front of the crowd, was about seventy feet from him.

"What is this?" demanded Allison. "What are you people doing here?"

"We've come for Forsythe," answered Truggles, and a murmur from the
crowd backed him up. "Where is he?"

"I'm surprised at you, all of you," said Allison. "You people are my
friends and Blan's friends. Why, you--"

He broke off as he caught sight of Phyllis and Donald.

"Phyllis!" he exclaimed. "What are you doing here? Take that boy home!"

Obediently, she turned away, but Truggles caught her by the arm.

"Get Forsythe out here!" he cried. "Let him face the woman he wronged!"

At that moment, Forsythe himself came out of the door and stood at
Allison's side. A wordless cry ran through the mob at the sight of the
tetraploid man's face, topped with its cap of mole-gray fuzz.

"I see you're still taking an active interest in my affairs, Truggles,"
said Forsythe. He did not raise his voice, but it carried across the
lawn.

"Evil is every man's business," answered Truggles boldly. "These
good people are enraged that you should flout the laws of society so
brazenly."

"Naturally," replied Forsythe, smiling. "And you enraged them. As long
as everyone here minded his own business, no harm was done."

"I expected you to take that attitude, Forsythe," shouted Truggles.
"Have you no sense of responsibility, no respect for the customs that
others have established for their protection?"

"Certainly," said Forsythe, but he added, logically: "Would you be
bound by the customs of a colony of mice, if they interfered with your
pursuit of greater ends?"

"Listen at him!" cried Truggles, turning to the crowd and spreading his
hands. "You see what high regard he has for you, who have befriended
him? He scorns you! He calls you mice!"

He turned back to the mansion with clenched fists and took a step
forward.

"You monster!" he shouted. "Even mice can be dangerous!"

The crowd behind him surged forward with a roar. Forsythe's voice rang
out above it.

"Wait!" he cried. "I appeal to your reason! I have no higher power. I
can't strike you dead, or vanish from your sight. All I can do is ask
you one question. Will you destroy me because I violate your customs,
when I represent the hope of your race to become something greater?"

His words fell on deaf ears. The crowd inched forward, ugly, dangerous.

A figure brushed past Truggles. It was Phyllis Allison, and she tugged
the boy Donald with her.

"Stop her!" cried Truggles. "Don't let her get in his clutches!"

Alone, for these words seemed only to confuse those near him, Truggles
ran after Phyllis and the boy. But they stopped, halfway to the porch,
and Truggles reached them. He placed his hand on Phyllis' arm and
pulled at her compellingly.

He was close enough to her to hear her words to the boy.

"Donnie!" she urged anxiously. "You remember the game we played? Use
the Power!"

The boy looked apprehensively toward the porch.

"Daddy said don't," he demurred.

Dr. Alex Allison stood, his hands gripping the rail of the porch,
looking out over the ugly crowd. There was no mistaking the moment. At
any instant, the mob would surge over the porch.

"Blan, I can't let them kill you because I've wronged you," said
Allison in a clear, agonized voice. "Donald is your son!"

There was a cry from Phyllis and she clutched the boy convulsively,
twisting free of Truggles' grip. The people on the lawn fell silent,
their upturned faces white in the light, waiting, sensing the import of
the revelation.

"I told you there was the possibility that the tetraploid could
reproduce with the diploid," said Allison. "It's true Donald's cells
don't contain 96 chromosomes--but neither do they contain just 48. They
contain 72 chromosomes--an even number, a viable number! Not always,
but sometimes the hybrid is superior to both diploid and tetraploid.
Blan, with all your unexplored qualities, you're just the vehicle of
the new race. Donald is the superman!"

"But it's impossible!" exclaimed Forsythe. "I haven't even seen Phyllis
since we were divorced."

"Did you think the tetraploid, the new species, would have the same
gestation period as man?" asked Allison. "The gestation period is
thirty months. Phyllis was pregnant when you were divorced, Blan,
but I loved her and I didn't let either of you know. I wanted her for
myself."

"So that's why you recommended polygamy so enthusiastically," remarked
Forsythe.

"That's why I recommended a two-year limit on keeping any of your
wives, and why I made sure they were sent far away," admitted Allison.
"I couldn't let you know. You have half a dozen sons and daughters now,
Blan, and Lois is going to be a mother."

There was happiness in Forsythe's dark face as he looked out over the
crowd. To see happiness on _his_ face cut Truggles' soul like a knife.

And all this small talk was losing his crowd. The seething emotions he
had nurtured so carefully were simmering down in harmless curiosity
aroused by the small private drama that had unfolded before the people
on the lawn.

"It's a conspiracy to mislead you!" he howled. "If no one else will
throw the first stone, I will!"

It was a symbolic gesture, his scooping up a harmless clod and hurling
it to explode against the porch as he marched on the man he hated. His
back to the crowd, Truggles feared with a terrible fear that it was
already too late. He was chancing making himself ridiculous.

But his heart leaped as the voices of a few hotheads arose in his
support behind him, and he felt, rather than heard, some of the people
surge forward. How many? He didn't know, but a few would be enough to
start the rest again.

Allison was leaning over the porch rail, his face white, looking not
at Truggles but past him.

"Donald!" he cried in a low voice that carried intensely across the
grass. "Do as your mother says! I won't punish you. Use the Power!"

And Truggles faltered and stopped in his tracks. He looked around him,
confused, as some unseen force seemed to take his will and disperse it.

The harsh glare of the lights faded in the glow of a greater, softer,
more glorious illumination. A soundless music filled the air, so deep
and majestic that it was felt, rather than heard. Almost, Truggles
expected the sky to open and a heavenly choir to appear.

Around him, he saw the familiar things of Marston Hill with new eyes.
Life coursed through the green grass, bade a winter's farewell from the
turning leaves of the trees. He felt for the first time that he was not
a creature alone, but a part of all life around him.

The faces of the people around him showed that they, too, felt what he
felt. They saw beauty in the air, in the world. As he looked on them,
Truggles realized, for the first time in the heart of him, that their
small faults were not vices, not innate evil--not even the hatred and
fear that had been in their hearts when they stormed here with him was
evil. There were only the well-meaning flaws that sprang from earnest
eagerness.

Even the face of Forsythe, when Truggles looked at it, mirrored the
ecstatic understanding of something that he had experienced only
partially before. And Truggles knew that the type of understanding
that had opened up to Forsythe was something he himself never could
comprehend.

And in the midst of this experience that transcended understanding, the
boy Donald took his mother's hand and the two of them floated _up_,
into the air, above Truggles' head, and forward to alight gently at
Forsythe's side on the porch.

But, amazing as that was, Truggles recognized it was only a small
outward manifestation of the Power. The Power of the superman was what
he and all these others felt, a weapon greater than fire or sword,
greater than will or reason. Under its influence, no man could raise
his hand against his brother, for he _understood_.

The vision, if vision it was, faded, and only a crowd of murmuring
people stood around sheepishly in the cold glare of the lights on
Forsythe's lawn.

"Truggles, you've won your point," said Forsythe, and there was no
animosity in his voice. "I don't need to experiment any more. I'm
leaving Marston Hill with my wife and son...."

He caught himself and looked at Allison.

"I can't hold her," said Allison in a low tone. "I won't try to. I'll
give her a divorce."

"... With my only wife and son," resumed Forsythe happily. "I'm going
to find my other children. And I don't think any of you will ever hear
of us again."

He turned and entered the house with Phyllis and Donald. Allison
followed them, his head bowed.
