
Ann looked up, surprised. "Jeremiah, I didn't expect you home so soon."
Her eyes fixed on the package. "What is it? What have you got?"

Winthrop walked to the table, put the package on it, and carefully
began to open it without saying a word. Ann and Davy stood close to
him; Davy climbed on a chair to see better. When Winthrop lifted off
the top layer of cotton, Ann's eyes widened and she clasped her hands
together and stared, silently.

"What is it, Daddy?"

"It's an egg, son. A hen's egg."

"Is it something to eat?"

"Yes, son. It is." Winthrop looked at his wife and said, "Shall we eat
it now?"

Ann nodded, quickly read the cooking instructions, and set about
preparing scrambled egg. Winthrop got out the cooking pan, wiped off
the dust, and set it down near her. She smiled at him and put a large
chunk of butter in it and placed the pan on the heater. When the butter
bubbled, she poured the beaten egg into the pan; it hissed as it
struck the hot butter. She began to stir the egg as it cooked. Winthrop
picked Davy up so he could see into the pan as the egg thickened. In a
moment it was done.

Ann lifted three small dishes from a cupboard, placed them on the
table, and carefully scraped the egg onto the plates. Buttered toast
and milk came next, then they sat down to eat. Winthrop said a grace.

They ate in silence.

Davy looked up after his egg was gone and said, "I don't like it very
much. I like it some, but not very much."

Winthrop reached over and ruffled his hair, saying to Ann, "It would
have been better if we'd had some salt, I guess. But it was good
anyway. I've often wondered what an egg tasted like."

He looked down at the empty plates and stared at them. Then he said
quickly, "Davy, it's your bedtime. You hop on in now."

Davy's face grew long, but then Winthrop looked at him, and he climbed
off his chair and went over and pulled his father down and kissed him
on the cheek. "Good night, Daddy."

"Good night, son."

Ann took Davy by the hand and led him into the bedroom. Winthrop
listened to the chatter and then to the prayers. He sat and listened
as he stared at the three egg-stained plates on the table. The plates
pushed into his mind, occupied it, filled it, until there was nothing
else. And at that moment the integrity of Jeremiah Winthrop broke.

He was still staring at the plates when Ann came out and sat down
beside him. She too looked at her husband, looked, and looked again,
closer. There were tears in his eyes.

She leaned toward him and put a hand on his shoulder. "What is it,
Jeremiah?" she asked quietly.

He turned full toward her, started to speak, but could not. He pointed
to the dirty plates and then cleared his throat. "Ann, that's the last
of it. It's getting worse all the time. There's no work for a man.
What are we going to do? Is Davy going to live the rest of his life
satisfied with Standard Fare? Can we watch him grow up not knowing
what it feels like to work? Ann...." He stopped and sat quietly for a
moment. "I've got to go to the Ministry of Government Employment."

She said, "Jeremiah, are you sure? We've always been able to manage on
our own. We've never needed help from the government."

"Ann--" He stood up and began pacing across the room. "How can we sit
and watch this happen to our boy? We can't take him out in all those
people very often. We can't take him to the roof. Ann, he's a good boy.
We can't let him live like this."

"But how will you feel? You have to make your own way. You've always
believed that."

Winthrop's stooped figure bent even more. He stopped pacing and stood
with his hands hanging at his sides, his chin on his chest. "I know,"
he said quietly. "I know. Help me, Ann. What should we do?"

She flew across the room to him and they clung together. After a moment
she said, "All right, Jeremiah. I knew this would come some day. We
will go down tomorrow to the Ministry of Government Employment and see
if they have any work for you. Maybe they have, and maybe it won't be
so bad. Maybe it's good work after all. We'll see."
