
The family was up early the next morning, up and eating Standard Fare.
After breakfast they began to get ready to go out. Ann went over all
the clothes, sponging spots off the slick fabric. Jeremiah Winthrop
paced back and forth with slow measured steps, his hands clasped behind
him, his head bent.

Ann took a little cord harness from the cabinet and slipped it over
Davy's head. She pulled the cords taut and tied them around him. She
passed a light piece of cord around her waist and tied the other end of
it to Davy's harness. She tied a second piece of cord to the other side
of the harness. Then she said to Winthrop, "Jeremiah, we're ready."

Winthrop stepped over to Davy's side. He passed the second piece of
cord around his waist and tied it fast. "I'm ready," he said.

They went out the door and it was not bad at first. Riding down the
spiral escalator it began to get crowded; people pressed shoulder to
shoulder. Davy clutched a parent's hand in each of his own. When they
arrived at the belts below ground-level, the press grew greater. Ann
and Winthrop used their legs to make room for Davy to stand on the
moving belt. The upper portions of their bodies pushed out against the
packed mass of humanity. They held their arms bent at the elbows to
form a bridge around Davy's head, stooping a little to do so. Silently
they pushed back against the surge of people.

They changed belts by walking in a kind of lockstep and again formed a
trembling bridge with their arms around Davy on the next belt. Twice
more they changed belts and in two hours they arrived at the building
next to their own. It was easier, going up the spiral escalator.

They came out into a huge room filled with people. Holding tight to
Davy's leash, they worked their way through the crowds, seeking a
registration desk. In half an hour they found one.

The line of people was only a few hundred yards long in front of that
particular desk. Jeremiah and Ann joined the line at the end, smiling
at each other. In four short hours they found themselves at the desk.

Winthrop gave his name and number to the man and explained why he
wanted an interview with one of the ministers. The man swiftly filled
out a set of papers, assigned Winthrop a line number and a chair
number, and pointed the direction to take.

Jeremiah, Ann, and Davy slowly passed through the crowds in the room,
this time seeking their line. They finally found it and Winthrop gave
his papers to the man in charge. Again they were fortunate. The line
to which Winthrop was assigned did not even reach out into the room;
the end of it had progressed into the long corridor that led to the
minister's office.

Winthrop settled into his moving chair while Ann and Davy bustled
around him and made him comfortable. Then they said goodbye.

"Ann, be careful going home. Go very slowly. Don't be afraid to scream
out if Davy begins to get crushed."

"Don't worry, dear. We'll be all right." Ann smiled at him, but her
eyes were too bright.

Winthrop saw it and stood up from his chair. "I'll take you home and
then come back."

"No." She gently pushed him back into the chair. "We'll lose another
day, and Davy and I will be all right. Now you just stay here. Goodbye,
dear." She leaned over and kissed him.

Winthrop said, "All right, but don't visit me, Ann. I'll be home as
soon as this is over, and it's too hard on you to make the trip alone."

She smiled and nodded. Winthrop kissed Davy and ruffled his hair. Then
Ann tied both ends of Davy's leash around her waist, and she and Davy
walked off. Both of them turned to wave frequently until the crowd
swallowed them up.
