
The days passed slowly for Winthrop. The corridor seemed to stretch on
interminably as he slowly moved down it in his chair. Every few hundred
yards there was the inevitable milk faucet and the bread and butter
slots, and every few feet there was the inevitable TV screen alive with
people talking, singing, laughing, shouting, or playing. Winthrop
turned each one off as he came abreast of it, if his neighbors did not
object. None of the people in the line were talkative, and that suited
Winthrop. Mostly he sat thinking over his forthcoming interview. Two
minutes to explain why he should be given work was not very long. But
the Ministers of Government Employment were busy men.

Toward the end of the second week Winthrop had a surprise visit from
Ann. She threw her arms around him and explained that Helen Barlow had
come to see her and had sent Ann off to visit. And it was while Ann
was there that Winthrop moved up to a position from which he could see
the door of the minister's office. When Ann left, she went with the
comforting knowledge that it would be only a few days more.

The time came when Winthrop was at the door. Then, suddenly, he was in
the anteroom, and before he could fully realize it he was standing in a
very small room before the minister.

Winthrop identified himself and said, "I have a boy of four, a fine
boy, and a fine wife too. I want to work the way a man should to give
them something besides Standard Fare. Here is what I have worked at in
the last five years." And Winthrop listed the things he had done.

The minister listened. He had white hair and a lined face whose skin
seemed to be pulled too tight. When Winthrop had finished, the minister
looked steadily into his face for a moment; Winthrop could almost
feel the probing of the level blue eyes. Then the minister turned to a
device that loomed over him to one side and punched a complex series of
buttons. There was a whirring noise behind the wall of the tiny room,
and then a small packet of cards appeared at the slot in the bottom
of the device. The minister picked them out and glanced at them, and
an odd expression of sadness swept across his face. It was gone in an
instant, and then he looked up and said, "Yes, Mr. Winthrop. We have
a job for you, and the full six hours a day, too. You will be on the
maintenance crew of your building. Your job is explained here--" he
passed over a card--"and it consists of tightening the nuts on the
expansion joints in the framework of the building. It is very important
to do it right, so read the card carefully." Winthrop nodded eagerly.

The minister handed over another card and said, "Here is a description
of the daily reports you must turn in." Another card. "Here is how you
and your chief decide your working schedule, and you must adhere to it;
it is very important. The chief of your tightening crew will go over
it with you. Here is your requisition for the special wrench you will
need. Here is your pay schedule; you can decide if you want to be paid
in money or produce. And one very important thing." The minister leaned
forward to emphasize his remarks. "You are not allowed to talk about
your job with anyone, not even with your best friends. Is that clear?"

Winthrop nodded. "Yes, sir."

"The reason is that we do not want people fighting over jobs. Not many
who come in here really want to work, but there are a few. We have
to pick good men for this work; those buildings must be kept in good
condition. Others less fortunate than you might not understand that you
are just the man we need. So no talking about your work--no talk of any
kind--on pain of dismissal." The minister sat back. "Well, I guess that
is about all. Report for work in the morning. Good luck." And he held
out his hand.

Winthrop shook it and said, "Thank you, sir. I'll work hard for you.
I didn't know you needed men for this work or I would have been here
sooner. I had always heard that.... Well, thank you." And Winthrop
turned to go. Out of the corner of his eye as he turned, he thought he
saw again that ephemeral expression of sadness, but when he looked the
minister full in the face it was gone. Winthrop went out the side door.
The entire interview had taken one and three quarter minutes.
