
Buck sliced another shaving, laid the stick aside and began whetting the
blade on the counter of his left boot.

“And one of them damn’ fools is goin’ to get killed,” added Ben.

“It’s kinda hard to git straight grain stuff these days,” said the sheriff
seriously. “I ’member when I was runnin’ a tradin’ post down Yuma way, I
used to git the best danged boxwood for whittlin’. I don’t suppose it runs
so good these days.”

“Ben and Pete are both friends of yours,” said Ben thoughtfully.

“Uh-huh. I like ’em both.”

“A killin’ might start trouble. The boys has kinda took sides.”

“I s’pose.”

“Bud and Pete are both good shots.”

“Yea-a-ah--purty good shots. Awful damn’ fools in lotsa ways, but good
shots. Uh-hu-u-uh. Well, I’ve got to write me some signs, Ben. It’s two
hours till sundown.”

“I thought you’d like to know about it, Sheriff.”

“Yeah, I do. Thank you kindly.”

“You’re welcome.”

Ben took his horse and headed for a saloon, while more cowboys came racing
in, their horses covered with lather and dust. The sheriff watched the
first contingent arrive. It was Bud Hickman and his gang from the Tumbling
K. Bud was a likable looking cowboy, about twenty-five years of age, tall,
lithe, swarthy as an Indian, with curling black hair and a white toothed
smile. His crew was a wild riding lot of hard bitted punchers, ready for
fun or fight at a moment’s notice.

They noted that Pete Asher and the J88 boys had not arrived yet; so they
all headed for the Desert Well Saloon, the biggest place of its kind in
Mojave Wells. The sheriff stood on the edge of the sidewalk for a while,
cogitating deeply. He had been sheriff of that particular county for
nearly two terms, which meant that Buck Brady was pretty much of a man.
Finally he went into his little office, and after a search he found an old
paint brush and a few ounces of almost dried paint in a battered can. He
kicked the ends out of a soap box, drew out the nails and sat down at his
desk.

Pete Asher and his crew rode in from the J88, tied their horses farther up
the street and entered the Prospect Saloon. Asher was a heavily built,
hard faced cowboy, about the same age as Bud Hickman. His hair was almost
a neutral shade, his eyes deep set and blue. There was little to choose
between his gang and the one which came in with Bud Hickman, and in
numbers they were about equal.

There were more outfits to come, but they were not connected with the
feud. Rud and his men were at the bar when the sheriff came in, and they
greeted him noisily. He was carrying a box end and a hammer, and without
any leave from the proprietor he proceeded to nail his sign to one of the
walls. It read:

                          FROM NOW ON EVERY MAN
                          MUST TURN HIS GUN OVER
                         TO MY OFFICE UNTIL HE IS
                           READY TO LEAVE TOWN.
                               BY ORDER OF
                              --BUCK BRADY.
