
All the cowboys went back to their drinking, and the sheriff was
forgotten, but both Bud and Pete kept track of the sun. The sheriff,
humped in his chair, still whittling, saw Pete come out, saunter to the
hitching rack, where he could view the sun. It was still an hour high.

Ben Dolan, fairly well filled with liquor, came over again and squatted on
his heels beside the sheriff. Ben was as hard bitted as the rest of the
cowboys, but he liked both Bud and Pete so well that he hated to see
either of them wounded or killed. And Ben was wise enough to understand
that both men would claim their guns at sundown.

They saw Bud leave the Desert Well Saloon, walk halfway across the street,
as if heading for a store, stop and look toward the west. He too was
keeping cases on the sun. Then he turned and went back to the saloon. Ben
made meaningless marks in the sand with a forefinger, while the sheriff
whittled thoughtfully.

“You shore collected a lot of guns, Sheriff.”

“Yea-a-ah.”

“Almost sundown.”

The sheriff shut one eye and considered Ben. Then he looked toward both
saloons, and went on whittling.

“The boys are gettin’ nervous,” said Ben.

“I notice.”

Several cowboys were standing in front of the Prospect Saloon now, and one
of them essayed a clog dance. His boots sounded loud on the old wooden
sidewalk. Another beat time on a porch post with the end of a quirt. It
was like the beating of a tomtom, and he kept it up for a time after the
dancer had stopped. The beater was swarthy, with high cheek bones.

Some of Bud’s gang came from the Desert Well and stood around in front of
the building. One of them, a little drunker than the rest, started across
the street toward the sheriff’s office, but the others stopped him and,
after an argument, persuaded him to desist.

“It’s kinda sultry,” said Ben, rubbing his forehead.

The sheriff nodded and looked at the sun, only half of which was visible
now. He blinked from the strong light and cut several shavings, which did
not suit him at all. A couple of dogs met in the middle of the street;
town dogs, fat and with a friendship of long standing. But now they
growled ominously at each other, as they circled, looking for an opening.

“Sic ’em!” hissed a cowboy from in front of the Desert Well.

“Take him, Tige! Shake his fleas loose. Four bits on the yaller one.”

“You’ve done made a bet, cowboy. Choose him, Ponto.”

But the dogs only circled and growled, and finally separated.

“Mebbe they’re waitin’ for the sun to go down,” whispered Ben.

The sheriff shook his head.

“Got more sense than men have.”
