
Both guns came up at exactly the same instant. Ben’s eyes snapped shut and
he turned his head aside.

Came a tiny ping, hardly louder than the mere snapping of a revolver
hammer. Another and another. Bud’s eyes jerked open. The two riders were
thirty feet apart, leaning forward in their saddles. Not a shot had been
fired.

With a swift movement, Bud Hickman swung out the cylinder of his Colt and
emptied the cartridges in his hand. Every primer had been dented. There
were marks on the bullets, marks made by the jaws of a pair of pliers.

Pete was swearing viciously, as he drew cartridges from his belt and
started to stuff them in his gun.

But the sheriff halted him with a sharp word.

“Damn you, you pulled the powder on my shells!” snarled Pete.

“Yeah; and I’ll pull somethin’ else out of you, if you make one more
move,” said the sheriff calmly. “C’mere, Bud.”

Bud rode up to him, still holding the empty gun in his hand. Pete had quit
trying to load his gun. They looked coldly at each other.

“You boys hadn’t ort to fight,” said the sheriff calmly. “Both of you
goin’ off kinda half cocked, as you might say.”

The men from both outfits had moved in close now, trying to understand
what it was all about, their enmity all but forgotten in this queer turn
of events.

“I pulled them bullets,” admitted the sheriff. “I don’t reckon either of
you showed any yaller streak. You played the game square, and I like you
both for it. Personally I kinda enjoyed it. It was like lookin’ at a show.
I was the only one that knowed how it would turn out.”

“Was it any of your damn’ business how it turned out?” demanded Pete
hotly.

“In a way, it was, Pete--” calmly. “Barrin’ my friendship with both of
you, and my position as sheriff, it still was my business, in a way. Now,
you two boys was aimin’ to kill each other over a woman. Yeah, Ben told me
about it. You might thank Ben instead of glarin’ at him.

“He liked both of you, and he didn’t want no killin’ done; so he told me
about it. I don’t think for a minute that this Smith girl would care to
have you killin’ each other over her. Most girls don’t. Anyway, it was a
sucker idea, because there ain’t no Smith girl around here any more; so
you was tryin’ to kill each other for nothin’.”

“What do you mean?” blurted Bud.

“The Smiths ain’t moved away,” offered a cowboy.

“If you hadn’t had so much killin’ on your mind, you might have found out
that me and the Smith girl was married over a week ago. You boys better go
back and have your spree, as soon as you give me back them guns, ’cause
I’ve got work to do.”

“Whittlin’?” asked Bud blankly.

“Lookin’ for somethin’ to whittle on.”

                                 THE END


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the July 1, 1928 issue of
Adventure magazine.]

