
They left the _Rurik_ in orbit and the boats gleamed through a high
blue heaven--with just the faintest tinge of purple, in this slightly
redder sunlight--to land on grass twin-bladed but soft and green, near
trees which swayed almost like poplars above a hurried chill river. Not
far away lifted steep, darkly forested hills, and beyond them a few
snow-peaks haunted the sky. That night fires blazed among temporary
shelters, folk danced and sang, accordions mingled with banjos, the
vodka bottle worked harder than the samovar, and quite likely a few new
human lives were begun.

There were two moons, one so close that it hurtled between
constellations not very different from those of home (what was ten
light-years in this god-sized cosmos?) and one stately in a clear
crystal dark. The planet's period of rotation was 31 hours, its axial
tilt 11°; seasons here would not be extreme. They named it New Earth
in their various languages, but the Russian majority soon had everyone
else calling it Novaya Zemlya, and that quickly became a simple Novaya.
Meanwhile they got busy.

There had been no sign of aborigines to dispute Paradise, but one
could never be certain, nor learn too much. Man had had a long time to
familiarize himself with Old Earth; the colonists must gain equivalent
information in months. So small aircraft were brought down and
assembled, and ranged widely.

Holbrook was taking a scout turn, with Ilya Feodorovitch Grushenko and
Solomon Levine, when they found the aliens.

It was several hundred kilometers from the settlement, on the other
side of the mountains. Suddenly the jet flashed over a wooded ridge,
and there was the mine pit, and the machines, and the spaceships.

"Judas priest!" gasped Holbrook. He crammed back the stick. The jet
spurted forward.

Grushenko picked up the mike and rattled a report. Only a tape recorder
heard it: they had too much work to do in camp. He slammed the mike
back down and looked grimly at the Americans. "We had best investigate
on foot, comrades," he said.

"Hadn't we better ... get back ... maybe they didn't see us go over,"
stammered Holbrook.

Grushenko barked a laugh. "How long do you expect them not to know
about us? Let us learn what we can while we can."

He was a heavy-muscled man, affecting the shaven pate of an Army
officer; he made no bones about being an unreconstructed sovietist, he
had killed two mutineers before they overpowered him and since then his
cooperation was surly. But now Levine nodded a bespectacled head and
put in: "He's right, Eben. We can take a walky-talky, and the jet's
transmitter will relay back to camp." He lifted a rifle from its rack
and sighed. "I had hoped never to carry one of these again."

"It may not be necessary," said Holbrook in a desperate voice. "Those
creatures ... they don't live here ... they _can't_! Why couldn't we
make an ... agreement--"

"Perhaps." A faraway light flickered in Grushenko's pale eyes. "Yes,
once we learn their language ... it might very well be possible, mutual
interest and--After all, their level of technology implies they have
reached the soviet stage of development."

"Oh, come off it," said Levine in English.

Holbrook used a downblast to land the jet in a meadow, a few kilometers
from the alien diggings. If the craft had not been noticed--and it
had gone over very quickly--its crew should be able to steal up and
observe.... He was glad of the imposed silence as they slipped among
great shadowy trees; what could he have said, even to Levine? That was
how it always went, he thought in a curious irrelevant anguish. He was
not much more nervous than the next man, but he had no words at the
high moments. His tongue knotted up and he stood like a wooden Indian
under the gaze of Ekaterina Ivanovna.

At the end of their walk, they stood peering down a slope through a
screen of brush. The land was raw and devastated, it must have been
worked for centuries. Holbrook remembered a survey report: curious
formations spotted all over the planet, pits hundreds of meters deep.
Yes, they must be the grass-grown remnants of similar mines, exhausted
and abandoned. How long had the aliens been coming here? The automatons
which purred about, digging and carrying, grinding, purifying, loading
into the incredibly big and sleek blue spaceships, were such as no one
on Earth had ever built.

Levine's voice muttered to a recorder beyond the mountains, "Looks like
rare-earth ores to me. That suggests they've been civilized long enough
to use up their home planet's supply, which is one hell of a long time,
my friends." Holbrook thought in a frozenness that it would be very
hard to describe the engines down there; they were too foreign, the eye
saw them but the mind wasn't yet prepared to register--

"They heard us! They are coming!"

Grushenko said it almost exultantly. Holbrook and Levine whirled about.
Half a dozen forms were moving at a trot up the slope, directly toward
the humans. Holbrook had a lurching impression of creatures dressed
in black, with purplish faces muffled by some kind of respirator
snout, two legs, two arms, but much too long and thin. He remembered
the goblins of his childhood, in a lost Maine forest, and a primitive
terror took him.

He fought it down just as Grushenko stepped out of concealment.
"Friends!" cried Grushenko. He raised both hands. "Friends!" The sun
gleamed on his bare head.

An alien raised a tube. Something like a fist struck Holbrook. He
went to his knees. A small hot crater smoked not two meters from
him. Grushenko staggered back, shooting. One of the aliens went on
its unhuman face. They deployed, still running to the attack. Another
explosion outraged the earth; fire crawled up a tree trunk. And
another. "Let's _go_!" yelled Holbrook.

He saw Levine fall. The little man stared surprised at the cooked
remnant of a leg. Holbrook made a grab for him. A gray face turned
up. "No," said Levine. He cradled his rifle and thumbed it to full
automatic. "No heroics, please. Get the hell back to camp. I'll hold
'em."

He began to shoot. Grushenko snatched at Holbrook's wrist. Both men
pounded down the farther hillside. The snarl of the Terrestrial rifle
and the boom of the alien blast-guns followed them. Through the
racket, for a second as he ran, Holbrook heard Levine's voice into
the walky-talky mike: "Four of 'em left. A few more coming out of the
spaceships. I see three in green clothes. The weapons seem ... oh,
Sarah, help me, the pain ... packaged energy ... a super-dielectric
maybe."




                              CHAPTER II


The officers of the _Rurik_ sat at a long rough table, under trees
whose rustling was not quite like that of any trees on Earth. They
looked toward Holbrook and Grushenko, and they listened.

"So we got the jet aloft," finished Holbrook. "We, uh, took a long
route home--didn't see any, uh, pursuit--" He swore at himself and sat
down. "That's all, I guess."

Captain Svenstrup stroked his red beard and said heavily: "Well, ladies
and gentlemen. The problem is whether we hide out for a while in hopes
of some lucky chance, or evacuate this system at once."

"You forget that we might fight!"

Ekaterina Ivanovna Saburov said it in a voice that rang. The blood
leaped up in her wide, high-boned face; under her battered cap, Tau
Ceti tinged the short wheaten hair with copper.

"Fight?" Svenstrup skinned his teeth. "A hundred humans, one spaceship,
against a whole planet?"

The young woman rose to her feet. Even through the baggy green tunic
and breeches of her uniform--she had clung to it after the mutiny, Red
Star and all--she was big and supple. Holbrook's heart stumbled, rose
again, and hurried through a dark emptiness. She clapped a hand to her
pistol and said: "But they do not belong on this planet. They must be
strangers too, as far from home as we. Shall we run just because their
technology is a little ahead of ours? My nation never felt that was an
excuse to surrender her own soil!"

"No," mumbled Domingo Ximénez. "Instead you went on to plunder the soil
of everyone else."

"Quiet, there!" roared Svenstrup.

His eyes flickered back and forth, down the table and across the camp.
Just inside the forest, a log cabin stood half erected; but the Finnish
couple who had been making it now crouched with the rest of the crew,
among guns and silence. The captain tamped tobacco into his pipe and
growled: "We are all here together, Reds and Whites alike. We cannot
even return to Earth without filling the ship's reaction-mass tanks,
and we need a week or more just to refine enough water. Meanwhile,
non-humans are operating a mine and have killed one of us without any
provocation we can imagine. They could fly over and drop one nuclear
bomb, and that would be the end of man on Novaya. I'm astonished that
they haven't so far."

"Or haven't even been aware of us," murmured Ekaterina. "Our boats were
coming and going for a pair of months or three. Did they not notice our
jet trails above the mountains? Comrades, it does not make sense!"

Ximénez said very low: "How much sense would a mind which is not human
make to us?"

He crossed himself.

The gesture jarred Holbrook. Had the government of the United World
S.S.R. been _that_ careless? Crypto-libertarians had gotten aboard the
_Rurik_, yes, but a crypto-believer in God?

Grushenko saw the movement too. His mouth lifted sardonically. "I
would expect you to substitute word magic for thought," he declared.
To Svenstrup: "Captain, somehow, we have alarmed the aliens--possibly
we happen to resemble another species with which they are at war--but
their reasoning processes must be fundamentally akin to ours, simply
because the laws of nature are the same throughout the universe.
Including those laws of behavior first seen by Karl Marx."

"Pseudo-laws for a pseudo-religion!" Holbrook was surprised at himself,
the way he got it out.

Ekaterina lifted one dark brow and said, "You do not advance our cause
by name calling, Lieutenant Golbrok." Dryly: "Especially when the
epithets are not even original."

He retreated into hot-faced wretchedness. _But I love you_, he wanted
to call out. _If you are Russian and I am American, if you are Red and
I am White, is that a wall between us through all space and time? Can
we never be simply human, my tall darling?_

"That will do," said Svenstrup. "Let's consider practicalities. Dr.
Sugimoto, will you give us the reasons you gave me an hour ago, for
assuming that the aliens come from Zolotoy?"

Holbrook started. Zolotoy--the next planet out, gold-colored in the
evening sky--the enemy belonged to this same system? Then there was
indeed no hope but another plunge into night.

The astronomer rose and said in singsong Russian: "It is unlikely
that anyone would mine the planets of another star on so extensive a
scale. It does not appear economically feasible, even if one had a
spaceship which could travel nearly at light-velocity. Now long-range
spectroscopy has shown Zolotoy to have a thin but essentially
terrestroid atmosphere. The aliens were not wearing air suits, merely
some kind of respirator--I think probably it reduces the oxygen content
of their inhalations--but at any rate, they must use that gas, which
is only found free on Zolotoy and Novaya in this system. The high thin
bipedal shape also suggests life evolved for a lower gravity than
here. If they actually heard our scouts, such sensitive ears probably
developed in more tenuous air." He sat down again and drummed on the
table top with jittery fingers.

"I suppose we should have sent boats to all the other planets before
landing on this one," said Svenstrup heavily. "But there was too much
impatience, the crew had been locked up too long."

"The old captain would not have tolerated such indiscipline," said
Ekaterina.

"I won't tolerate much more from you, either." Svenstrup got his pipe
going. "Here is my plan, We must have more information. I am going to
put the _Rurik_ into an orbit skewed to the ecliptic plane, as safe
a hiding place as any. A few volunteers will stay hidden on Novaya,
refining reaction-mass water and maintaining radio contact with the
ship; everyone else will wait up there. One boat will go to Zolotoy and
learn what it can. Its crew will not know the _Rurik's_ orbit; they'll
report back here. Then we can decide what to do."

He finished grayly: "If the boat returns at all, of course."

Grushenko stood up. Something like triumph blazed in him. "As a
politico-military specialist, I have been selected and trained
for linguistic ability," he said. "Furthermore, I have had combat
experience in suppressing the Brazilian capitalist uprising. I
volunteer myself for the boat."

"Good," said Svenstrup. "We need about two more."

Ekaterina Ivanovna Saburov smiled and said in her low, oddly gentle
voice, "If a Ukrainian like Comrade Grushenko goes, a Great Russian
must also be represented." Her humor faded and she went on earnestly,
overriding the captain, "My sex has nothing to do with it. I am a
gunnery officer of the World Soviet Space Fleet. I spent two years on
Mars, helping to establish a naval outpost. I feel myself qualified."

Somehow, Holbrook was standing up. He stuttered incoherently for a
moment. Their eyes speared him, a big square-faced young man with
rumpled brown hair, brown eyes nearsighted behind contact lenses, his
body drab in coveralls and boots. He got out finally: "Let Bunin take
my post. I, I, I can find out something about their machinery--"

"Or die with the others," said Svenstrup. "We need you here."

Ekaterina spoke quietly. "Let him come, captain. Shall not an American
also have the right to dare?"




                              CHAPTER III


The boat ran swiftly, accelerating on ion drive until Novaya was only
one blue spark of beauty and Zolotoy became an aureate shield. There
was much silence aboard. Watching his companions, Holbrook found time
to think.

Grushenko said at last, "There must be some point of agreement with
them. It is impossible that they could be imperialists."

Ekaterina curved her lips in a sad little grin. "Was it not impossible
that disloyal elements could get onto the _Rurik_?"

"There were traitors on the selection board," said Grushenko. His voice
darkened. "They were to choose from many nations; man's first voyage
beyond the sun was to be a symbol of the brotherhood of all men in
the World Soviets. And who did they pick? Svenstrup! Ximénez! Bunin!
Golbrok!"

"Enough," said the woman. "Now we have only one cause, to survive."

Grushenko regarded her from narrowed glacial eyes. "Sometimes I wonder
about your own loyalty, Comrade Saburov. You accepted the mutiny as
an accomplished fact, without even trying to agitate--you have fully
cooperated with Svenstrup's regime--this will not be forgotten when we
get back to Earth."

"Fifty years hence?" she gibed.

"Fifty years is not so long when one has frozen sleep." Grushenko gave
Holbrook a metallic stare. "It is true, we have a common interest at
the moment. But suppose the aliens can be persuaded to aid one of our
factions. Think of that, Comrade Saburov! As for you, Ami, consider
yourself warned. At the first sign of any such attempt on your part, I
shall kill you."

Holbrook shrugged. "I'm not too worried by that kind of threat," he
said. "You Reds are a small minority, you know. And the minority will
grow still smaller every year, as people get a taste for liberty."

"So far there has been nothing the loyal element could do," said
Ekaterina. The frigidity of her tone was a pain within him; but
he could not back down, even in words, when men had died in the
spaceship's corridors that other men might be free. "Our time will
come. Until then, do not mistake enforced cooperation for willingness.
Svenstrup was clever. He spent a year organizing his conspiracy. He
called the uprising at a moment when more Whites than Reds were awake
on duty. We others woke up to find him in charge and all the weapons
borne by his men. What could we do but help man the ship? If anything
went wrong with it, no one aboard would ever see daylight again."

Holbrook fumbled after a reply: "If the government at home is, uh, so
wonderful ... how did the selection board let would-be rebels like me
into the crew? They must have _known_. They must have hoped ... some
day the mutineers ... or their descendants ... would come back ... at
the head of a liberating fleet!"

"No!" she cried. Wrath reddened her pale skin. "Your filthy propaganda
has had some results among the crew, yes, but to make them all active
traitors--the stars will grow cold first!"

Holbrook heard himself speaking fluently; the words sprang out like
warriors. "Why not be honest with yourself?" he challenged. "Look at
the facts. The expedition was to have spent a total of perhaps fifty
years, at the most, getting to Alpha Centauri, surveying, planting a
colony if feasible, and returning to glory. To Earth! Suddenly, because
of a handful of rebels, every soul aboard found himself headed for
another sun altogether. It would be almost six decades before we even
got there. Not one of our friends and kin at home would be alive to
welcome us back, if we tried to return. But we wouldn't. If Tau Ceti
had no suitable planet, we were to go on, maybe for centuries. This
generation will never see home again.

"So why did you, why did all of them, not heed the few fanatics like
Grushenko, rise up and throw themselves on our guns? Was death too high
a price, even the death of the whole ship? Or if so, you still had many
years in which to engineer a counter-mutiny; all of you were awake
from time to time, to stand watches. Why didn't you even conspire?

"You know very well why not! You saw women and grown men crying with
joy, because they were free." Bitterness seared his tongue. "Even you
noisy Red loyalists have cooperated--under protest, but you have done
your assigned duties. Why? Why not set the crew an example? Why haven't
you even gone on strike? Isn't it because down inside, not admitting it
to yourself, you also know what a slave pen Earth has become?"

Her hand cracked across his face. The blow rang in him. He stood gaping
after her, inwardly numbed, as she flung from the control cabin into
the passageway beyond.

Grushenko nodded, not without compassion. "They may claim all the
equality they will, Eben Petrovitch," he said. It was the first time he
had offered that much friendship. "But they remain women. She will make
a good wife for the first man who fully comprehends this is true in her
own case too."

"Which I don't?" mumbled Holbrook.

Grushenko shook his head.
