
And the world Zolotoy grew. They decelerated, backing down upon it. A
few whirling electrons piloted them; they stared through telescopes
and held up photographs to the light, hardly believing.

"One city," whispered Ekaterina. "_One city!_"

Holbrook squinted at the picture. He was not a military man and had
no experience with aerial photographs. Even greatly enlarged, it
bewildered him. "A city over the whole planet?" he exclaimed.

Grushenko looked through the viewport. This close, the golden shield
was darkly streaked and mottled; here and there lay a metallic gleam.
"Well, perhaps twenty per cent of the total area," he replied. "But
the city forms a continuous webwork, like a net spread over the entire
oceanless globe. It is obviously a unit. And the open spaces are all
used--mines, landing sites, transmission stations, I suppose. It is
hard to tell, they are so different from any designs we understand."

"I imagine their food is synthetic," said Ekaterina. Her snub nose
wrinkled. "I should not like that. My folk have been peasants too many
centuries."

"There are no more peasants on Earth," said Grushenko stiffly. Then he
shook his hairless skull and clicked his tongue in awe. "But the size
of this! The power! How far ahead of us are they? A thousand years? Ten
thousand? A million?"

"Not too far ahead to murder poor old Solomon Levine," said the woman
raggedly. Holbrook stole a glance at her. Sweat glittered on the wide
clear brow. So she was afraid too. He felt that the fear knocking under
his own ribs would be less if he could have been warding her, but she
had been bleak toward him since their quarrel. _Well_, he thought, _I'm
glad she liked Solly. I guess we all did._

"There was some mistake," said Grushenko.

"The same mistake could kill us," said Holbrook.

"It is possible. Are you wishing you had stayed behind?"

The engines growled and grumbled. Fire splashed a darkness burning
with suns. At 7800 kilometers out they saw one of the sputniks already
identified on photographs. It was colossal, bigger than the _Rurik_,
enigmatic with turrets and lights and skeletal towers. It swung past
them in a silence like death; the sense of instruments, unliving eyes
upon him, prickled in Holbrook's skin.

Down and down. It was not really surprising when the spaceships came.
They were larger than the boat, sleekly aerodynamic. Presumably the
Zolotoyans did not have to bother about going into orbit and using
shuttle rockets; even their biggest vessels landed directly. The lean
blue shapes maneuvered with precision blasts, so close to absolute
efficiency that only the dimmest glow revealed any jets at all.

"Automatic, or remote-controlled," decided Holbrook in wonder. "Live
flesh couldn't take that kind of accelerations."

Fire blossomed in space, dazzling their eyes so they sat half blind for
minutes afterward. "Magnesium flares," croaked Grushenko. "In a perfect
circle around us. Precision shooting--to warn us they can put a nuclear
shell in our airlock if they wish." He blinked out the viewport.
Zolotoy had subtly changed position; it was no longer ahead, but below.
He chuckled in a parched way. "We are not about to offer provocation,
comrades."

Muted clanks beat through the hull and their bones. Holbrook saw each
whale shape as a curve in the ports, like a new horizon. "Two of them,"
said Ekaterina. "They have laid alongside. There is some kind of
grapple." She plucked nervously at the harness of her chair. "I think
they intend to carry us in."

"_We_ couldn't do that stunt," muttered Holbrook.

A day came back to him. He had been a country boy, remote even from
the collective farms, but once when he was seven years old he sent in
a winning Party slogan (he didn't know better then) and was awarded a
trip to Europe. Somehow he had entered alone that museum called Notre
Dame de Paris; and when he stood in its soaring twilight he realized
how helplessly small and young he was.

He cut the engines. For a moment free fall clutched at his stomach,
then a renewed pressure swiveled his chair about in the gymbals. The
scout boat was being hauled around Zolotoy, but downward: they were
going to some specific place on the planet for some specific purpose.

He looked through his loneliness at Ekaterina, and found her staring
at him. Angrily, she jerked her face away, reached out and grasped the
hand of Ilya Grushenko.




                              CHAPTER IV


On the way, the humans decompressed their atmosphere until it
approximated that of Zolotoy. There was enough oxygen to support
lethargic movement, but they donned small compression pumps,
capacitor-powered, worn on the back and feeding to a nose-piece. Their
starved lungs expanded gratefully. Otherwise they dressed in winter
field uniforms and combat helmets. But when Ekaterina reached for her
pistol, Grushenko took it from her.

"Would you conquer them with this, Comrade Saburov?" he asked.

She flushed. Her words came muffled through the tenuous air: "It might
give us a chance to break free, if we must escape."

"They could overhaul this boat in ten seconds. And ... escape where? To
interstellar space again? I say here we stop, live or die. Even from
here, it will be a weary way to Earth."

"Forget about Earth," said Holbrook out of tautness and despair. "No
one is returning to Earth before Novaya is strong enough to stand off a
Soviet fleet. Maybe you like to wear the Party's collar. I don't!"

Ekaterina regarded him for a long time. Even through the dehumanizing
helmet and nose-piece, he found her beautiful. She replied: "What kind
of freedom is it to become the client state of an almighty Zolotoy? The
Soviet overlords are at least human."

"Watch your language, Comrade Saburov!" snapped Grushenko.

They fell back into silence. Holbrook thought that she had pierced him
again. For surely it was true, men could never be free in the shadow of
gods. Even the most benign of super-creatures would breed fear and envy
and hatred, by their mere incomprehensible existence; and a society
riddled with such disease must soon spew up tyrants. No, better to flee
while they had a chance, if they still did at all. But how much longer
could they endure that devil's voyage?

The linked vessels fell downward on micrometrically controlled blasts.
When a landing was finally made, it was so smooth that for a moment
Holbrook did not realize he was on Zolotoy.

Then he unbuckled himself, went to the airlock controls and opened the
boat. His eardrums popped as pressures equalized; he stepped out into
a still, cold air, under a deep violet sky and a shrunken sun. The low
gravity made it wholly dreamlike.

Unthinkingly, the three humans moved close together. They looked down
kilometers of glass-slick blackness. A spaceship was landing far off;
machines rolled up to attend it, but otherwise there was no sign of
life. Yet the emptiness did not suggest decay. Holbrook thought again
of the bustle around a Terrestrial airport. It seemed grubby beside
this immense quietude.

The spacefield reached almost to the near horizon. At one end clustered
several towers. They must be two kilometers high, thought Holbrook
in the depths of an overwhelmed brain: half a dozen titanic leaps of
metal, but blended into a harmony which caught at his heart.

"There!"

He turned around. The Zolotoyans were approaching.
