
There were ten of them, riding on two small platforms: the propulsive
system was not clear, and Holbrook's engineer's mind speculated about
magnetic-field drives. They stood up, so rigid that not until the
flying things had grounded and the creatures disembarked could the
humans be quite sure they were alive.

There was about them the same chill beauty as their city bore. Two and
a half meters tall they stood, and half of it was lean narrow-footed
legs. Their chests and shoulders tapered smoothly, the arms were almost
cylindrical but ended in eerily manlike hands. Above slender necks
poised smooth, mask-faced heads--a single slit nostril, delicately
lipped mouths immobile above narrow chins, fluted ears, long amber eyes
with horizontal pupils. Their skins were a dusky hairless purple. They
were clad identically, in form-fitting black; they carried vaguely
rifle-like tubes, the blast-guns Holbrook remembered.

He thought between thunders: _Why? Why should they ignore us for
months, and then attack us so savagely when we dared to look at them,
and then fail to pursue us or even search for our camp?_

_What are they going to do now?_

Grushenko stepped forward. "Comrades," he said, holding up his hands.
His voice came as if from far away; the bare black spaces ate it
down, and Holbrook saw how a harshly suppressed fear glistened on the
Ukrainian's skin. But Grushenko pointed to himself. "Man," he said. He
pointed to the sky. "From the stars."

One of the Zolotoyans trilled a few notes. But it was at the others he
(?) looked. A gun prodded Holbrook's back.

Ekaterina said with a stiff smile: "They are not in a conversational
mood, Ilya Feodorovitch. Or perhaps only the commissar of interstellar
relations is allowed to speak with us."

Hands closed on Holbrook's shoulders. He was pushed along, not
violently but with firmness. He mounted one of the platforms. The
others followed him. They rose without sound into the air. Looking
back, Holbrook saw no one, no thing, on all the fused darkness of the
spaceport, except the machines unloading the other ship and a few
Zolotoyans casually departing from it. And, yes, the craft which had
borne down the Terrestrial boat were being trundled off, leaving the
boat itself unattended.

"Have they not even put a guard on our vessel?" choked Ekaterina.

Grushenko shrugged. "Why should they? In a civilization this advanced
there are no thieves, no vandals, no spies."

"But...." Holbrook weighed his words. "Look, though. If an alien ship
landed on your front step, wouldn't you at least be curious about it?"

"They may have a commissar of curiosity," said Ekaterina slyly. _Her
humor shows up at the damnedest times!_ thought Holbrook.

Grushenko gave her a hard glance. "How can you be sure, comrades, they
do not already know everything about us?" he answered.

Ekaterina shook her blonde head. "Be careful, comrade. I happen to
know that speculations about telepathy are classified as bourgeois
subjectivism."

Did she actually grin as she spoke? Holbrook, unable to share her
gallows mirth, lost his question, for now he was flying among the
towers, and so into the city beyond.

There was no Earth language for what he saw: soaring many-colored
pride, hundreds of meters skyward, stretching farther than his eyes
reached. Looped between the clean heights were elevated roadways; he
saw pedestrian traffic on them, Zolotoyans in red and blue and green
and white as well as black. There seemed to be association between the
uniform and the physical appearance: the reds were shorter and more
muscular, the greens had outsize heads--but he could not be sure, in
his few bewildered glimpses. Down below were smaller buildings, domes
or more esoteric curves, and a steady flow of noiseless traffic.

"How many of them are there?" he whispered.

"Billions, I should think." Ekaterina laid a chilled hand on his. Her
hazel eyes were stretched open with a sort of terror. "But it is so
still!"

Great blue-white flashes of energy went between kilometer-high spires.
Now and then a musical symbol quivered over the metal reaches of the
city. But no one spoke. There was no loitering, no hesitation, no
disorder, such as even the most sovietized city of Earth would know.

Grushenko shook his head. "I wonder if we can even speak with them," he
admitted in a lost voice. "What does a dog have to say to a man?" Then,
straightening himself: "But we are going to try!"

At the end of a long flight, they landed on a flange, dizzyingly
far above the street (?). Watching Zolotoyan hands on the platform
controls, Holbrook found the steering mechanism superbly simple. But
then he was urged through an arched doorway and down a dim corridor of
polished blue stone. He saw faint grooves worn in the floor. This place
was _old_.

Ekaterina whispered to him, "Eben Petrovitch,"--she had never so called
him before--"have you seen even one ornament here? One little picture
or calendar or ... anything? I would give a tooth for something humanly
small."

"The city is its own ornament," said Grushenko. His words came louder
than required.

They reached a dead-end wall. One of the black figures touched a stud,
and the wall dilated.

Beyond was a room so large that Holbrook could not make out its ceiling
through the sourceless muted radiance. But he saw the machine that
waited, tier upon tier where tiny red lights crawled like worms, and he
saw a hundred silent green-clad Zolotoyans move through the intricate
rituals of servicing it. "A computer," he mumbled. "In ten thousand
years _we_ may be able to build a computer like that."

A guard trilled to a technician. The technician waved calmly at some
others, who hurried to him. They conferred in a few syllables and
turned to the humans with evident purpose.

"_Gospodny pomiluie_," breathed Ekaterina. "It is a ... a routine! How
many like us have come here?"

Holbrook felt himself shoved onto a metal plate in the floor. He braced
himself for death, for enlightenment, for God. But the machine only
blinked and muttered. A technician stepped up with an instrument,
touched it to Holbrook's neck, and withdrew an unfelt few cubic
centimeters of blood. He bore it off into the twilight. Holbrook waited.

The machine spoke. It was hard to tell its voice from the sweet
Zolotoyan trills. The guards leveled their guns. Holbrook gasped and
ran toward Ekaterina. Two black giants caught and held him.

"By heaven," he found himself howling, foolish and futile melodrama in
the twilight, "if you touch her, you bastards--!"

"Wait, Eben Petrovitch," she called. "We can only wait."

Hands felt over his garments. An instrument buzzed. A Zolotoyan reached
into Holbrook's pocket and took out a jack-knife. His watch was pulled
off his wrist, the helmet off his head. "Judas priest," he exclaimed,
"we're being frisked!"

"Potential weapons are being removed," said Grushenko.

"You mean they don't bother to look at our spaceship, but can't tell
a watch isn't a deadly weapon--hey!" Holbrook grabbed at a hand which
fumbled with his air compressor.

"Submit," said Grushenko. "We can survive without the apparatus." He
began to point at objects, naming them. He was ignored.




                               CHAPTER V


Beyond the chamber was another hall, and at its end was another room.
It was a small, bare, windowless cell of the same blue stone. Dull
light came from the walls themselves, a waste-disposal hole opened
downward, a porous circle in the ceiling breathed fresh air. Otherwise
the place was featureless. When the black guards had urged the humans
through and the dilated wall had returned to a blank barrier, they were
alone.

They felt drained and light-headed in the thin atmosphere. Its dryness
caught at their throats and its cold gnawed toward their bones. But
most terrible, perhaps, was the silence.

Holbrook said at last, for them all: "Now what?"

Unhelmeted, Ekaterina's sunlight-colored hair seemed to crackle with
frost. Suddenly his living universe had narrowed to her--though he
could do worse, he thought in the dimness--with Grushenko hovering on
its fringes. Beyond, mystery; the stone walls enclosed him like the
curvature of space. The woman said with a forlorn boldness, the breath
smoking from her lips, "I suppose they will feed us. Else it would have
been most logical just to shoot us. But they do not seem to care if we
die of pneumonia."

"Can we eat their food?" muttered Holbrook. "The odds are against it,
I'd say. Too many incompatible proteins. The fact we can live on Novaya
is nearly a miracle, and Zolotoy isn't that Earthlike."

"They are not stupid," snorted Grushenko. "On the basis of our blood
samples they can synthesize an adequate diet for us."

"And yet they took our metallic possessions--even the most harmless."
Ekaterina sat down, shivering. "And that computer, did it not give them
orders? Is the computer the most powerful brain on this planet?"

"No." Holbrook joined her on the floor. Oxygen lack slowed his
thoughts, but he plowed doggedly toward an idea. "No, I don't believe
in robots with creative minds. That's what intelligence itself is
for. You wouldn't build a machine to eat for you, or ... or make
love ... or any truly human function. Machines are to help, to amplify,
to supplement. That thing is a gigantic memory bank, a symbolic logic
manipulator, what you like; but it is not a personality."

"But then why did they _obey_ it?" she cried.

Grushenko smiled wearily. "I suppose a clever dog might wonder why a
man obeys his slide rule," he said.

"A good enough analogy," said Holbrook. "Here's my guess. It's obvious
the Zolotoyans have been civilized for a very long time. So I imagine
they visited all the nearer stars ... ages ago, maybe. They took data
home with them. That computer is, as Ekaterina said a few hundred years
back, the commissar of interstellar relations. It has all the data. It
identifies us, our home planet--"

"Yes, of course!" exclaimed Grushenko. "At this moment, the rulers of
Zolotoy--whatever they have, perhaps the entire population--they are
studying the report on us!"

Ekaterina closed her eyes. "And what will they decide?" she asked in a
dead voice.

"They will send someone to learn our language, or teach us theirs,"
said Grushenko. A lift of excitement came to him, he paced up and down,
his boots clacked on the floor and his face became a harsh mask of
will. "Yes. The attack on us at the mine was a mistake of some kind.
We must assume that, comrades, because if it was not we are certainly
doomed. Now we have a chance to reason with them. And they can restore
the rightful captaincy to the _Rurik_!"

Holbrook looked up, startled. After a moment: "What makes you so sure
they will?"

"There is much we can offer them--it may be necessary to conceal
certain elements, in the interests of the larger truth, but--"

"Do you expect to fool a superman?"

"I can try," said Grushenko simply. "Assuming that there is any need
to. Actually, I think they are sure to favor the Red side. Marxist
principles would seem to predict that much. However...."

A minute longer he rubbed his jaw, pondering. Then he planted himself,
big and heavy, in front of Holbrook. He looked down from his height and
snapped: "I will be the only one who talks to them. Do you understand?"

The American stood up. The motion made his head swim. But he cocked
his fists and said in anger, "Just how do you expect to prevent me ...
comrade?"

"I am the better linguist," said Grushenko. "I am sure to be talking to
them while you still flounder about trying to tell the syllables apart.
But there are two sovietists here. Between us we can forbid you even to
attempt it."

Holbrook stared at the woman. She rose too, but backed away. One hand
lifted to her mouth. "Ilya Feodorovitch," she whispered. "We are three
human creatures."

"Comrade Saburov," said Grushenko in an iron tone, "I make this a test
of your loyalty. If you wish to commit treason, now is your time."

Her gaze was wild upon Holbrook. He saw the tides of blood go through
her skin, until they drained and she stood white and somehow empty.

"Yes," she said. "Yes, comrade."

"Good." Warmth flowed into the deep voice. Grushenko laid his hands
upon her shoulders, searched her eyes, suddenly embraced her. "Thank
you, Ekaterina Ivanovna!" He stepped back, and Holbrook saw the heavy
hairless face blush like a boy's. "Not for what you do," breathed
Grushenko. "For what you are."

She stood quiet a long time. Finally she looked at Holbrook with eyes
gone cat-green and said like a mechanism: "You understand you will keep
yourself in the background, say nothing and make no untoward gestures.
If necessary, we two can kill you with our hands."

And then suddenly she went to a corner, sat down and hugged her knees
and buried her face against them.
