
But the young assistant was stunned into staying by the huge size of the
Social Control file that was carried by the next patient, Mr. Fallon,
and his wife.

"I know just what you're thinking, Dr. Kalmar!" cried Mrs. Fallon
distractedly, but with a nervously bright smile. "Those awful Fallons
again! I don't blame you a bit, but--"

As a matter of fact, that was exactly what Dr. Kalmar was thinking, plus
the defeated feeling that they were all he needed to make the day
complete.

"Good Lord, what's in all those files?" Dr. Hoyt exclaimed.

Dr. Kalmar could have explained, but he didn't feel up to it.

Mr. Fallon, a wispy, shyly affable, poetic-looking chap, did it for him.
"Papers," he said.

"I know that, but why so many?" Dr. Hoyt asked impatiently.

Miss Dupont seemed wryly amused as she watched his consternation.

"I guess you might say it's because I can't make my mind up," confessed
Mrs. Fallon with an uneasy giggle. She was a big woman who might have
gurgled over a collection of toy dogs on Earth, but here she was a
freight checker and her husband was a statistician in the Department of
Supply, though on Earth he might have been anything from a composer to a
social worker. "No matter how often we rephysical Harry, I always get
tired of his looks in a few months."

"And how often has that been done?" Dr. Hoyt demanded.

"I think it's eleven times. Isn't that right, dear?"

"No, sweet," said Mr. Fallon. "Thirteen."

Dr. Kalmar could have interrupted, but he considered it wiser to let his
assistant learn the hard way. Miss Dupont was enjoying it too much to
interfere.

"We've made him tall and we've made him short, skinny, fat, bulging with
muscle, red hair, black hair, blond hair, gray hair--I don't know, just
about everything in the book," said Mrs. Fallon, "and I simply can't
seem to find one I'd like for keeps."

"Then why the devil don't you get another husband?"

Mrs. Fallon looked shocked. "Why, he was assigned to me!"

"Dr. Hoyt just came from Earth," Dr. Kalmar cut in at last, before a
brawl could start. "He's not familiar with our methods."

"Let's hear the cockeyed reason," Dr. Hoyt said resignedly.

"We keep our population balanced," said Dr. Kalmar. "Too many of either
sex creates tension, hostility, loss of efficiency; look at Earth if you
want proof. We can't risk even a little of that, so we use prenatal sex
control to keep them exactly equal."

"There's a wife for every man," Mr. Fallon put in genially, "and a
husband for every woman. Works out fine."

"With no surplus," Dr. Kalmar added. "There are no floaters to allow the
kind of marital moving day you have on Earth, where so many just up and
shift over to new mates. We get ours for life. That's where Ego Alter
and Rephysical come in."

"You mean people bring in their mates to have them done over?"

"If they're not satisfied and if the mates agree to be changed."

"I don't mind," said Mr. Fallon virtuously. "I figure Mabel will decide
what she wants one of these changes, and then we can settle down and be
happy with each other."

"But what about you?" asked Dr. Hoyt, bewildered. "Don't you want her
changed?"

"Oh, no. I like her fine just as she is."

"You see now how it works?" Dr. Kalmar asked. "We can't have a variety
of mates, but we can have all the variety we want in one mate. It comes
to the same thing, as far as I can see, and causes much less confusion,
especially since we need stable relationships."

Dr. Hoyt was striving heroically to stay indignant in spite of the
sedative. "And do many ask to have their mates changed?"

"I guess we're a sort of record, aren't we?" Mr. Fallon boasted.

"I guess you are," agreed Dr. Kalmar. "And now, Dr. Hoyt, if there
aren't any more questions, I'd like to proceed with this couple."

Dr. Hoyt stretched his eyes wide to keep them open. "It's all screwy to
me, but it's none of my business. As soon as I finish my internship, I'm
heading back to Earth, where things make sense, so I don't have to
understand this mishmash you call a planet. Need help?"

"If you'd find out what Mrs. Fallon has in mind this time, it would let
me run the patients through a lot faster."

"How would they feel about it?" Dr. Hoyt asked.

"It's all right with me," Mr. Fallon said amiably. "I'm pretty used to
this, you know."

"But what are we going to make you look like, Harry?" his wife fretted.
"I felt very jealous of other women when you were handsome and I didn't
like you just ordinary-looking."

"Why not go through the model book with Dr. Hoyt?" suggested Dr. Kalmar.
"There are still some types you haven't tried."

"There _are_?" she asked in gratified astonishment. "Would you mind very
much, Dr. Hoyt?"

"Glad to," he said.

Miss Dupont brought out the model book for him, and he and Mrs. Fallon
studied the facial and physical types that were very explicitly
illustrated there in three-dimensional full color. Mr. Fallon,
contentedly working out math problems on a sheet of paper, left the
choice entirely to her.
