
Meanwhile, Dr. Kalmar and Miss Dupont swiftly took care of a succession
of other patients, raising the tolerance level of frustration in a
watchmaker, replating the acne-pitted skin of a sensitive youth,
restoring a finger lost in a machine-shop accident, and building up
good-natured aggression in an ore miner whose productivity had slumped.

Mrs. Fallon still hadn't decided when the last patient had been taken
care of. She said unhappily, "I don't know. I simply absolutely don't
know. Couldn't you suggest _something_, Dr. Hoyt?"

"Wouldn't be ethical," he told her bluntly. "Not allowed to."

Dr. Kalmar, checking the Social Control papers with Miss Dupont,
wondered if he should interfere. It would lower confidence in Dr. Hoyt,
which meant that people would insist on Dr. Kalmar's treating them.
Then, instead of having an assistant to remove some of the load, he'd
have to do the work of two men. He decided to let the young doctor
handle it.

But Dr. Hoyt stood up in exasperation, slammed the book shut, and said,
"Mrs. Fallon, if you know what you want, I'll be glad to oblige. But I'm
not a telepathy--"

"Is there anything I can do?" Dr. Kalmar interrupted quickly, before his
assistant could create any more damage.

"He doesn't have to get huffy," Mrs. Fallon said indignantly. "All I
asked for was a suggestion or two."

"Insult my wife, will he?" Mr. Fallon belligerently added.

"It's my fault," Dr. Kalmar said. "Dr. Hoyt just got in today from Earth
and he's tired and he naturally doesn't understand all our ways yet--"

"_Yet?_" Dr. Hoyt repeated in disgust. "What makes you think I'll
ever--"

"And I shouldn't have burdened him with this problem until he's had a
chance to rest up and look around," Dr. Kalmar continued in a slightly
louder voice. "Now, let's see if we can't settle this problem before
closing time, eh?"

The Fallons subsided, Dr. Hoyt watched with a sarcastic eye, though he
kept silent as Dr. Kalmar and Miss Dupont, working as a shrewd team,
gave them the suggestion they had been looking for. It was all done very
smoothly, so smoothly that Dr. Kalmar felt professional pride because
even his stiff-necked assistant was unable to detect the fact that it
_was_ a suggestion.

Dr. Kalmar got Mrs. Fallon to reminisce about the alterations her
husband had undergone, and Miss Dupont promptly agreed with her when she
explained why each had been unsatisfactory. It took some time, but he
eventually brought her back to what Mr. Fallon had looked like when
she'd first married him.

"Now, isn't that the strangest thing?" she said, puzzled. "I can't
remember. Can you, dear?"

"It's a little mixed up," Mr. Fallon admitted. "Let's see, I know I was
taller and I think I had a long, thin face--"

"Oh, we don't have to guess," Dr. Kalmar said. "Nurse, we have the
information on file, don't we?"

"Yes, Doctor," she said, and instantly produced a photograph. They
evidently thought it was merely filing efficiency; they hadn't noticed
her searching for the picture quietly while Dr. Kalmar had been leading
them on. He had, in fact, delayed asking her until she'd nodded to
indicate that she had found it.

Mr. Fallon frowned as if he'd recognized the face but couldn't remember
the name. His wife gave a little shriek of admiration.

"Why, Harry, you looked perfectly wonderful!"

"Those deep dimples made shaving pretty hard," he recalled.

"But they're _darling_! Why did you ever let me change you?"

"Because I wanted you to be happy, sweet."

It was as simple as that--a bit of practical psychology based on
knowledge of the patients. Dr. Kalmar wished wistfully that old Dr.
Lowell had been there to observe. He would have approved, which might
have made up for Dr. Hoyt's unpleasant expression.

"I hope this is the one you want," Dr. Kalmar said as he took them to
the front door after the rephysical.

"Goodness, I hope so!" Mrs. Fallon exclaimed. She looked fondly at her
husband, and this time had to look up to see his face. "I'm almost
_positive_ this is what I want Harry to be."

"Well, if it isn't, sweet," Mr. Fallon said, "we'll try something else.
I don't mind as long as it makes you happy."

They closed the door behind them, leaving the hospital empty of all but
the small staff.

"They're crazy!" Dr. Hoyt exploded. "He's not the one we should be
changing. That idiotic female needs a good Ego Alter!"

"He hasn't asked for it," Dr. Kalmar pointed out patiently.

"Then he ought to!"

"That's his decision, isn't it? There's such a thing as ethics, you
know."

"I've never seen anything more insane than the way you work," snapped
Dr. Hoyt. "I can't wait to finish my stretch here and go home."

He stamped out, weaving slightly because of the sedative.

"Well, what do you think of our assistant?" asked Dr. Kalmar.

"He's cute," Miss Dupont said irrationally.

Dr. Kalmar glowered at her. He'd forgotten that she was due to have a
mate assigned to her this year.
