
Routine at the hospital was anything but routine. Dr. Hoyt barely kept
from yelping each time someone was treated, and his help was given so
unwillingly that Dr. Kalmar, sweating under a double load and with Dr.
Hoyt to argue with at the same time, was all for putting him on the ship
and asking Earth for another intern. But Miss Dupont talked him out of
it.

For no discernible reason other than loneliness, Dr. Hoyt was taking her
out. She was pleased, even though he crabbed constantly about the
shabby-looking clothes she wore, which were typical of Deneb, and the
way they fitted her.

Either the two of them didn't talk shop, or she had no influence with
him--his criticism and impatience grew sharper each week.

It bothered Dr. Kalmar more than he thought it should, and much more
than Mrs. Kalmar wanted it to. She was a pleasant little woman who liked
things as they were, which was why Dr. Kalmar had hesitated all this
while to ask her to undergo a slight rephysical; he would have preferred
her a little taller, more filled out, her slight wrinkles deleted and,
while he was thinking about it, he wished she'd let him give her
space-black hair instead of her indeterminately blondish mop. But he'd
rather have her as she was than peevish, so he had never mentioned it.

"Don't let the boy upset you, she said. "It's only that he's so young
and inexperienced. You can't expect him to adjust quickly to a new
environment and a whole new medical orientation."

"But that's just what annoys me! Why, I used to hang onto every word of
Dr. Lowell's when I came here! I never thought I knew better than he
did."

"Well, dear, you're you and Dr. Lowell is Dr. Lowell and Dr. Hoyt is Dr.
Hoyt."

He tried to think of an answer and couldn't. "I suppose so."

"Maybe you'd feel better if you spoke to Dr. Lowell about it."

"What could he do? This is really an internal problem that I should work
out with Dr. Hoyt. I can't involve Dr. Lowell in it."

But it became intolerable when there was a young girl who wanted to be a
boy and Dr. Kalmar and Dr. Hoyt got into the worst battle yet.
Naturally, she had to be given an Ego Alter to make her happy about
being a girl, whereas Dr. Hoyt argued that she should be allowed to be a
boy if that was what she wanted. Dr. Kalmar explained angrily once more
that the sexes were exactly balanced and Dr. Hoyt quoted the rule of
personal choice. It was applicable on Earth, but not on Deneb, Dr.
Kalmar retorted, to which Dr. Hoyt snorted something about playing God.

Dr. Kalmar confessed harshly to his wife that she was right. He had to
bring old Dr. Lowell into the situation; it was out of Dr. Kalmar's
control and was keeping the hospital in a turmoil. It was time for Dr.
Lowell to inspect the hospital, the job he had taken in place of actual
retirement. Dr. Kalmar needed help from Miss Dupont to bring the problem
out into the open. But she became unexpectedly obstinate.

"I won't hurt Leo's career," she explained flatly.

Dr. Kalmar gave her a vacant look. "Leo?"

She blushed. "Dr. Hoyt. He's honestly trying to understand, but he finds
it so different from Earth. Practically everything we do here is in
reverse."

"But so is our environment, Miss Dupont. Earth is over-crowded and Deneb
is under-populated, so of course our methods would be the opposite of
Earth's. He has to be made to see that we must solve our problems our
own way."

She studied his face suspiciously. "That's all you want?"

"Certainly. Damn it, do you think I want him fired and sent back to
Earth before his internship's up? I know it would hurt his record.
Besides, I need an assistant--but not one I have to bicker with every
time I make a move."

"Well, in that case--"

"Good girl. All you have to do is help me hold off the cases he'd argue
about until Dr. Lowell gets here." He stared down glumly at his hands,
which were gripping each other tightly. "God knows I'm no diplomat. Dr.
Lowell is. He convinced me easily enough when I came here. Maybe he can
do the same with Dr. Hoyt."

"Oh, I hope he can," Miss Dupont said earnestly. "I want so much to have
you and Leo work together in harmony."

He glanced up, curious. "Why?"

"Because I'm in love with him."

He found himself nodding bitterly. Having Dr. Hoyt go back to Earth
wouldn't be a fraction as bad as Miss Dupont leaving with him. So now
there was something else to worry about.
