
Only for an instant was the figure silhouetted there before the door
closed and darkness reigned supreme once more. Yet that instant was
long enough to tell him that it had been a woman. And though her
features had not been discernible, he had gotten the impression of
exceptional beauty.

For a time there was no movement; no sound save her faint breathing.
"Who's there?" he said. "What do you want?"

And then she came nearer and stood so close to him that the perfume of
her breath was upon his face. Suddenly he groped, caught her arm and
pulled her to him. The warmth of her body was against him. He felt her
tremble. But she did not try to pull away.

He laughed. "Perhaps I may revise my opinion of Ophir," he said.

"No light!" she whispered. Her voice was low and vibrant.

"Why not?"

"I must not be seen here. But I had to warn you. It would not have been
right not to warn you about Aidennsport."

"What of Aidennsport?"

"It is a dreadful--an evil place. There are forces here which you would
not understand. Leave at once while you are still able to go!"

"You forget that I am a policeman. To leave without completing the
census would be dereliction. I remind you that the Empire is inexorable
in these things. And who are you, anyway?"

She did not answer, but drew away so quickly that he could not grasp
her. In a moment, from across the room her voice came. It was less
intimate, even matter-of-fact.

"If you will not leave," she said, "lock this door behind me and do
not, as you value your life, step outside this hut until daylight."

She was suddenly gone and he was alone in mystification and wonder, and
a dull, stirring anger that he could not account for.

But he could make nothing of it and after a time he put the incident
resolutely out of his mind and tried to sleep. This was not
accomplished at once. Curious sounds had begun to filter in through the
fenestrations. Some were the night sounds of birds or insects. Other
sounds, faint hissings and gruntings, were unidentifiable. Once he
thought he heard the slap-slap of bare feet running past his door.

At last he was forced to employ a mild form of auto-suggestion, learned
long ago and employed often during those first lonely years in space.
He slept.

But once, in the early hours of morning, he was awakened by a tumult.
There was much loud hissing and the scampering of many feet outside
the daub-hut, as though some intricate and riotous game might be in
progress out there, the nature of the game--or for that matter, the
players--unguessed at. But he was half asleep, and thought little of it
until he awoke again at daybreak.
