
The Authority of the Rift constabulary is acknowledged universally,
though sometimes grudgingly. The men of Aidennsport, therefore,
sullenly reported to Wellesley, and brought their families.

It is a singular thing, but almost every birth and death in the galaxy
is recorded by the Empire. The laws concerning this are old and
stringently enforced. Therefore Wellesley already had a fairly accurate
estimate of the true population of Aidennsport, and it came close to
the number offered by Amos Sealilly.

Following the seldom-used manual of the Bureau, he received vital
statistics, made micro-photos and dermal prints, and endeavored a
minute scrutiny of every man, woman and child that passed before him.
He was finished by mid-afternoon.

Evidence of ingeneration he found in plenty, in the marked similarity
of features among certain families, but nothing which could be called
deviation or mutation. Not even polydactylism, which is one of the
earlier manifestations. Still, he knew that the physical impress of the
mutant was often subtle, and that he might have overlooked something.

In none of the females could he identify the girl of last evening. If
she had failed to appear--was hiding in the village--might not others
be hiding too?

The only recourse was to study the natives and try again. In many cases
deviation among _homo sapiens_, who had colonized the Rim planets,
simulated the natural characteristics of native races. The relationship
between mutation and environment was obvious.

The chief magistrate, factor, or leader of any colony with an official
grant was required by law to assist and obey any member of the Rift
police in the capacity of a deputy.

Wellesley called Amos Sealilly, who had been avoiding him all day. "Is
there a tribe of the dominant native species near here?" he asked.

Sealilly was still drinking, and saluted stiffly. "In the swamp,
Lieutenant."

"Guide me there."

"You can go to hell," Sealilly said, "and I will guide you _there_."

"You refuse?"

"I do. It's too dangerous for a spaceman. Full of bog-fever. You've no
natural resistance. Besides, I'm busy inventorying."

"Very well," Wellesley said, struggling to hold his temper in check,
"I'll find them alone."

"In which case," said Sealilly, "you will not come back, and that will
be an irreparable loss to the Empire."

Wellesley left him and made his way toward the swamp. Joseph was
playing near his ship, and calling orders to an imaginary crew inside.
When he saw Wellesley he came running.

"We were just blasting off for Earth," he said, "but I heard you and Pa
talking. If you want to go in the swamp, I'll show you the way. I've
been there lots. The Ophirians hang out on the shores of the black
lake, where the organ pipes are." He pointed to the towering pinnacles
in the distance. "They catch shellfish there."

"You know them?"

"Everybody has seen them. They are kind of green and slimy, but they
won't hurt you. They can't see in the day-time. Only smell. Anyway, I'm
not afraid of them."

"Done," said Wellesley, "and in return for the favor I promise to put
in a word for you at the nearest spaceman's hiring hall."

"You won't have to do that," Joseph said. "My crew and I are going to
be space pirates."

Then Wellesley laughed aloud, and felt better afterward than he had
felt in many a long month.
