
The trail through the swamp was damp and primitive. Everywhere the
cycads, giant ferns and reeds overhung the path. There were great,
blood-colored flowers which snapped at twigs that Joseph put into their
corollas.

Meanwhile, the ferrax-beast labored behind them, following with its
proboscis to the ground, until the boy, taking pity, picked it up and
carried it. Wellesley asked its name.

"His name is Omur," Joseph said. "I caught him in the mountains when he
was little and raised him. But now Omur is too fat to walk."

Eventually they emerged into an open swale, with a stretch of dark
water before them. On the other side of the slough lay a sight well
worth a day's march. Dozens of giant pipes, some two hundred feet or
more in height, stood braced against the sky, pastel blue, pink, and
gold in the mists.

But Wellesley was less interested in these than the creatures which
moved like grubs about their base, at the edge of the lake--squat,
grotesque forms that waded the shallow water, scavenging for shellfish
and crustaceans, and took no notice of the humans.

On coming nearer, however, Wellesley observed a very curious fact. The
Ophirians were of two varieties. The ones in the mud were gross and
toadlike in appearance. Whenever they found an especial delicacy they
would run, with their webbed feet making smacking sounds in the shoal
water, and lay it at the feet of an Ophirian who sat in a wallow of
peat moss and mud, and did nothing. He was a much smaller variety, but,
Wellesley noted, with considerably greater frontal development to his
skull. Also his thin body bore a long, green tail. The tails of the
workers were vestigial.

"The chief?" Wellesley asked.

"No," Joseph said. "It's something else."

"Are they a clan, then, or brothers?"

"Closer than brothers," Joseph said, scratching Omur's head.

"I have it--_avatars!_ I should have guessed!" He had heard of this
odd genetic arrangement before, but never witnessed it. In such
cases a dozen or more individuals were born of a single nucleus in
a single egg. Of these, one developed more fully than the rest and
controlled his mentally-stunted avatars with a mental vinculum far more
fundamental and powerful than mere telepathic union. On the other hand,
the avatars were his hands and feet, and had larger bodies.

The large-headed Ophirian sat in his wallow and accepted the food
offered him with long, leathery fingers. He crunched noisily. Once he
turned to stare at them briefly with great, owl eyes. Eleven avatars
turned simultaneously to stare. It was like looking into a multiple
mirror.

"They sense us," Joseph said, "but they can't see us. Come on."

From nearby, the pipes were even more awe-inspiring. Besides the
massive old towers there were smaller ones in every stage of
development. It was incredible to think that they were actually
growing; pushing up out of the lake.

In one of them a jagged hole, five or six feet in circumference, had
been broken at the base. Joseph, with his furry pet under his arm, went
to investigate it.

A moment later there came a shout from him that brought Wellesley
running. "What's the matter?"

"Omur went up the pipe," Joseph said, "but _you_ can get him." There
were tears in his eyes. Beseeching tears.

"We'll see," said Lieutenant Wellesley brusquely. He put his head
inside the pipe. A tiny circle of light far above him showed at what an
awesome height was the upper rim. The inner surface, however, was very
rough, and there were plenty of holds for hands and feet. He could not
see Omur; only the circle of light, and around it, blackness. Suppose
the damned thing bit him when he tried to rescue it! A faint, moaning
sound emanated from the vast funnel, doubtless from the updraft.

He found a place for his foot; drew himself up a step; then another.
Joseph's white face was staring up at him from below. _And suddenly the
circle of light was blotted out!_
