
Someone was shaking him brutally and insistently, and someone was
repeating his name, over and over. He knew the voice at once, for it
had been lately in his thoughts.

"_Get up!_" she said.

"I can't."

"You must--or die. Get up now and try to walk. Come, I'll help you."

She did help him, and with her support he managed to get to his knees
and then to his feet. He walked.

Afterward, there was a kind of delirium. He remembered bitter tasting
capsules which she made him swallow later on in the daub-hut, but he
did not recall having arrived there. He only knew that it was pleasant
to have her cool hands on his forehead. The hands seemed to fill a
vast, fundamental need. And this was out-of-character for Lieutenant
Wellesley.

After a while he was lucid, and was surprised to note that, as at their
other meeting, the darkness was absolute. "It's night," he said. "Very
dark."

"Yes."

"Give me your hand."

He held it for a time in both his own. It was a firm, capable hand with
long, tapering fingers. "Believe that I am grateful," Wellesley said,
"even though I must be grateful to a benefactor whom I have yet to see
for the first time. Let me look at you. I cannot command you to tell me
who you are, as an officer of the Rift constabulary, but I ask it as
your friend."

"You ask the impossible," she said. "The worst is over for you, but
there may be still another shock to come. You must stay here until you
are stronger, and then I will help you escape. Now I had better go,
before--before I am missed."

He heard her retreating footsteps and the closing of the door.

_Escape from what?_ he wondered vaguely. The poison, or the antidote
seemed to have brought about some curious psychological change in him.
He could not think with the old, clear incisiveness. The drive was
gone, the purposefulness of his mission to Ophir. He was like Samson
shorn--or a man taken with void amentia whose mind becomes as a
child's.

And it was so dark. A horrible suspicion arose in his mind. He searched
for, and found the torch that was in his kit. He turned it on. Nothing
happened. No beam of light shot out to illuminate the ceiling. He
clicked the switch several times, then held the lens against his cheek.
It was warm, all right.

He was stone blind.
