
Wellesley was not unlearned in the physiological sciences. He guessed
that the blindness might be temporary--a result of neural shock, but
that was scant consolation.

Now it seemed to him that since his arrival an invisible pattern of
ill-will had been forming up around him. An ugly something lurking
beneath the sullen surface of this strange village. A malignant force,
beyond doubt, that well knew his true mission on Ophir.

Now he was helpless, incapable of concerted action. He could not even
retreat, but only lie and listen and wait. Now it was _their_ move. The
terrors of the blind were apt to be blind terrors indeed.

The sounds were not long in beginning. At first an indistinct murmur.
Then something--or someone--scampered swiftly past his door. He got
up and locked it; then lay back, spent by the exertion. Presently the
running and scampering began in earnest. And a hissing and squealing
such as might have emanated from all the fiends in Hell. Once there
came a scratching at the door.

An hour passed like a century. The sounds had gradually died away into
an absolute silence that was much worse. He waited.

There came a knock at the door.

He sat up quickly. "Who is it?"

"_It's me--Joseph._"

He unlocked the door and the boy came in with light, eager tread. "You
all right?" he said.

"Yes--yes, I'm all right. But I can't see. Tell me, what time is it?"

"It's nearly morning."

"Thank God! Now listen carefully. Do you know what a strategic
withdrawal is?"

"Sure, everybody knows that. Every spaceman, I mean."

"Good. It is time for me to withdraw to my patrol monitor in space and
make a radio report. Will you guide me to the rocket? There may be
danger."

"I'm not afraid," Joseph said. "Come on, I know a short cut."

Wellesley slung his space kit over his shoulder and followed, with his
hand on Joseph's collar. They went out into the night air which smelled
fresh and clean after the daub-hut, and revived him a little.

At first he walked easily, for the ground was level, but after a minute
or two the growth became heavy underfoot, causing him to stumble, and
reeds were whipping against his face.

Presently they halted.

"Why have we stopped?" Wellesley asked.

"Here we are," Joseph said.

"We couldn't have gotten there in such a short time. Not even by a
short cut."

"Put your hand out before you," Joseph commanded. "You'll see. I guess
we can blast off any time." There was a sound of feet, scrambling up a
steel ladder. A moment later he could hear Joseph's voice from inside,
echoing hollowly.

He put his hand out and touched the ladder. The rungs were flaked with
heavy rust beneath his finger. "_This is not my rocket!_"

"It's _my_ rocket," said Joseph's disembodied voice, from somewhere
above his head.

Wellesley cursed him.

"It's the fastest ship in the universe," Joseph said. "_Where you
going?_"
