
Wellesley left Ophir a small, grey-green globe in the vastness of
black space and set an automatic course for the mother ship, where he
intended to submit a detailed report by radio to Regional Headquarters
on Rigel Twelve.

So far as he was concerned, the case was closed, once they were aboard
the patrol ship, but it was three weeks to the vicinity of Rigel, and
in that time a curious sequel had developed.

The girl (her name turned out to be Laura) had stopped crying, and had
begun to take an interest in life once more. In fact, he sensed that
she was studying him a great deal of late.

They were standing before the viewport, she looking at the great angry
mass of Rigel, magnified in the glass, but actually still two days
ahead, he listening to every sound aboard the huge ship as he had
learned to listen since the darkness closed in on Ophir.

She spoke. "How will it be on Rigel Twelve? Will I ever see you again?"

"Will you care?" he said.

"Perhaps I ought to hate you, but it is only because you are blind that
you can not understand. On Ophir I was not happy, but at least it was
home. Out there they may laugh at me. It is exciting and wonderful, but
terrifying."

"They will not laugh at you. You will be allowed to live on any
approved planet that you wish, and choose your own profession. You will
be trained at the expense of the Empire. And in a few years you may
be allowed to visit your father and brother on Ophir. Only _visit_, I
mean. Does that sound so bad?"

"But if they laugh--"

"_I_ am not laughing," said Wellesley, with a strange lump in his
throat.

"You might if you could see me. I'm too dark. My eyes are too big. My
ears are too small."

"I _can_ see you," he said.

"Is it true!" She clasped his shoulders. "But when--how long?"

"Since this morning, a little. The effect of the venom is passing.
Now I can see you perfectly, and you are beautiful. Strange, and--and
beautiful."

And she was.

"Do not go to Rigel Twelve. Stay with me," he said. (It was Wellesley's
misfortune that he always sounded like a policeman making an arrest,
but she kissed him anyway.)

And he thought what a fool Amos Sealilly had been.
