
But Amos Sealilly had had troubles of his own. It was the evening after
Wellesley had taken leave of Ophir forever. Sealilly dreaded the coming
night, as he always did, and had fortified himself against it. He was
drunk, but not drunk enough.

The warehouse was locked for the day. He was walking toward the house,
lurching a little, and mumbling curses as he did so. Then he spied
Joseph.

Joseph, a small figure in the dusk, had just climbed out of the rusty
old peak-tank at the edge of the swamp. He had furnished it with a
bunk, as befit a well-found spaceship, and often slept there.

The fact was that he had been sleeping there all day, having been up
all night. Joseph did not go to school. He yawned and stretched.

Amos Sealilly went on to the house, and started to shut the door behind
him, but Joseph, coming up behind him, pushed it open and came in. He
was breathing hard, having hurried to catch up with his father. He
asked:

"What about the spaceman?"

"What about him?"

"Was he lost in the swamp?"

"Where did you get that idea?" Sealilly said. "He made it. Took off
before you were up this morning, just before dawn."

"I _was_ up," Joseph said. "I thought it was a meteorite. Damn!" He
stamped his small foot.

Sealilly grinned thinly. "Laura went with him."

Joseph's face whitened. "_Laura?_ Damn him! Damn her too."

"You always hated her," said Sealilly, taking the bottle out of his
pocket and sucking it. "She was too normal for you to stomach, I
guess."

"I would've got him if he hadn't run away like a yellow dog," Joseph
said. "The stingbats would have done it if she hadn't interfered. And
then this morning I had him, too." He was thoughtful for a moment. "Who
do you suppose tipped him off?"

And he watched his father's pasty face.

"_Who?_"

Sealilly laughed.

"All right," Joseph hissed. "I'll get you for that. You wanted to get
rid of _me_, I'll bet. But you got rid of her instead."

But Sealilly continued to laugh, inside, because this was almost as
good as getting rid of Joseph, having Laura out of his clutches at last.

"Me and my crew will fix you for that," Joseph said bitterly.

And with that, his avatars came crowding in behind him, squat, powerful
and ugly, their saucer eyes intent upon Sealilly.

He had been through it several times before, but this time he screamed
a little bit before it was over. He could not get away from Joseph, of
course. There was too many of him.



