
There are two marked tendencies of extreme displayed by the
short-story: The first, and the more modern, is a fondness for
over-compression; that is, the practice of skeletonizing the story,
of giving little more than a bare, swift outline of the action, and
only so much accessory material as may be needed to round out a body
decently clothed upon with flesh. The story is everything, the
setting almost nothing. It scarcely need be said that this tendency
comes perilously near to robbing the short-story of the literary
qualities which it should rightly display. A few of Maupassant’s
compact and abrupt shorter fictions may serve to illustrate this
characteristic--not to mention unhappy examples all too prevalent
to-day.

The second tendency is quite in the other extreme. I speak of it now
because most of Balzac’s shorter stories are of this type,--which gives
much space to detail, the development of setting, and the building up
of a well-rounded and fully-garbed body to carry the soul of the story.
If the scenario-story is likely to swing to an extreme of compression,
the leisurely type is prone to over-leisureliness, as is often seen in
the shorter work of Mr. James, and the later little fictions by Mr.
Howells, wherein, and so far properly too, the story is not made to
be everything, but wherein--not so wisely--circumstances and air are
accorded even more than due value. The effect is to draw the narrative
away from the unity and compression characteristic of the short-story
type, and range it with those other fictional forms which, while
cognate to, are really something different from the short-story.

Balzac’s short-stories--so to call them--were written from three
to five years before Poe wrote “Berenice” (1835), which was his
first short-story to anticipate and meet fully the requirements of
the type as formulated by the author himself, in his criticism of
Hawthorne’s “Tales,” in 1842. But Balzac drew more and more away
from the impressionistic, unified, condensed short-story, for it was
evidently not his ideal form, and took up the detailed psychological
novel of manners. Even in the story given herewith in translation, we
find a wealth of detail and an extent of time covered in the action
which are not part and parcel of the true short-story, technically
considered. But, lest these comments seem to cite these qualities in
derogation of Balzac’s art be it noted that Balzac’s little fictions,
with all their fullness, are greater than many technically perfect
short-stories in their miraculous compression. Certainly it is only
this dual element of fullness and consequent diffused final effect
which prevented him from anticipating Poe as the first _conscious_
artist of the short-story--yet with this one reservation I reserve
much, for compression and unity of final impression are the very twin
arteries of this fictional form. Balzac’s short-stories approached
technical perfection just as closely as did the short-stories of those
two American forerunners of Poe--Irving and Hawthorne.

It is illuminating to observe that Balzac’s full-method of short-story
art was not the reflex of the successful novelist who was sure of his
public and for that reason dared the expansive treatment. The truth is
that of his successful novels only _The Chouans_ had been written in
1829 before he began, in 1830, that brilliant series of shorter stories
which place him among the masters.

The fictive art of Balzac is more clearly displayed in his
short-stories than in his novels. By far the greater number of his
novels are filled with a vast amount of contributory detail not always
germane to the plot. As stories, they often mark time. The author’s
great motive was to make faithful transcripts from life, to present
realities, to penetrate into the deeps of the human soul and disclose
its inner life, to delineate the high and the low places of the whole
social system of his era. On this giant-journey he was often allured
from the highway of his story by side-paths rich in interest, and the
great realistic novelist did not any more hesitate to follow out these
beckoning byways than did Victor Hugo in his equally great romances.
The inevitable in each case was a far from unified type of fiction.

In Balzac’s short-stories, however, we discern but very little of
this tendency, fully expanded though they are, and that is why I
have ventured to assert their artistic superiority to his novels.
True, the genius of this greatest of French novelists can be fully
appreciated only by those who make a study of his longer works with
their tremendous sweep of character presentment, minuteness of setting,
and depth of psychological inquiry. But for approximate singleness of
effect--a great factor in the consideration of fictional merit--we must
turn to his short-stories.

This contrast in method is due not merely to Balzac’s fondness for
making excursions in his novels, but it is largely attributable to
the nature of the _nouvelle_, or expanded short-story form. Any
short-story, being complete in itself and not one of a series,
necessarily bears a much less close relation to any other of its kind
than does any one of Balzac’s novels to his other novels. Each of these
is an integrated part of a great life-record which he was engaged in
completing--but which, unhappily, was never consummated.

The themes of all Balzac’s short-stories are consistent with the
artistic requirements of the _nouvelle_; that is to say, they are
transcriptions of _exceptional marginalia_ from common life, always
dealing with the unusual, and occasionally with the unique. Because
of this quality, it seems evident that, as Brunetière has pointed
out, Balzac elected to develop these incidents in short-story form
rather than expand them into novels. Treated in the short-story, they
stand for what they are--extraordinary happenings in common life (as
distinguished from impossible “incidents” which are told in fantastic
and ultra-romantic short-stories); in the novel, they would have been
enlarged out of their true focus, and so have seemed to bear a more
important, a more typical, relation to life as a whole than any such
exceptional incidents ever do. Hence, again, Balzac has used in his
short-stories less the realistic method of narration than the romantic.
Pure realism as a method is suited to the novel, where life shows
whole; but the short-story, which presents a section, a phase, an
incident of life, and by which we do not hope to gain a picture of an
age, of a whole social system, or even of an entire individual life, is
almost compelled to adopt the methods of romanticism even when laying
its fictional foundations, as Balzac did, deep in the ground of reality.

In attempting to get a view of his broad genius we must remember our
author’s versatility, not alone of gift but of temper; and since a
consideration of his novels is not pertinent to this paper, let us see
if the many-sided Balzac is not clearly revealed in a varied half-dozen
of his greatest short-stories.

Picture this powerful worker spending endless days and nights, months
on end, roaming the streets of Paris, haunting purlieu and boulevard,
absorbing with the thirsty passion of a universal analyst the knowledge
of what man is. But he is more than a terrifically industrious
observer, he is sincere, and he codifies his observations as _The
Connoisseur of Life_.

This first phase of our social psychologist--and as such he blazed
new trails in French literature--is well illustrated in one of his
greatest stories (it seems trite to aver that it must be read to be
appreciated!) which is a romantic _nouvelle_ of about ten thousand
words, “The Unknown Masterpiece.” It is well to note in this connection
that the typical psychological-study differs from the character-study
in that the former concerns itself with _workings_ of the inner life,
while the latter notes the _effect_ of life on character, disposition,
bearing, and conduct.

Nicolas Poussin, a poor and ambitious young artist, timidly visits
François Porbus, another artist of ability, in his studio. There Master
Frenhofer, an eccentric, wealthy old artist, is discoursing on his
theories of art (set forth brilliantly and at length in the story, and
illustrating the marvellous sweep of Balzac’s knowledge). Frenhofer
is obsessed by the conviction that the artists of the day do not make
their subjects live, and illustrates by criticising the painting, “St.
Mary the Egyptian,” which Porbus has about completed. “Your saint is
not badly put together, but she is not alive. Because you have copied
nature, you imagine that you are painters, and that you have discovered
God’s secret! Bah! To be a great poet, it is not enough to know syntax,
and to avoid errors in grammar.” “The mission of art is not to copy
nature, but to express it” (an illuminating passage when applied to
Balzac’s own work). At length the old man seizes the brushes, and with
a few strokes imparts vivacity to the figure, and makes the “Saint”
stand out from the canvas.

Old Master Frenhofer himself has been laboring for ten years to perfect
his painting of a woman, but despairs of adding the final touches, and
determines to travel in search of a perfect model. In his enthusiasm
for art, and hoping to gain Frenhofer’s secret, as well as instruction
from the old painter, Nicolas asks his beautiful mistress and model,
Gillette, to pose for the old man. A protracted struggle ensues between
her abhorrence of the idea and her wish to serve her lover. At last,
however, she yields.

When Nicolas and Porbus are permitted to view Frenhofer’s completed
canvas, they discover that in his long effort to perfect his work the
old painter has entirely covered the original picture, and that not
more than a shadowy human foot is to be seen; only the imaginative eye
of the artist himself is able to see the figure!

The dénouement is a double one: As she feared would be the case,
Gillette loses her love for Nicolas, who could sacrifice the sacredness
of her beauty in order to advance his own career by capturing the
secrets of a great master; and the old artist, after burning all his
paintings, dies in despair upon discovering the truth, for he has lived
all these years with his painting as the well-loved companion of his
labors and his dreams.

A great story, illustrating Balzac as a connoisseur--a knower of life.
