
A second phase of Balzac’s genius is that of _The Impressionistic
Literary Artist_. In his inner life some pictures were born, others
were caught on the retina from his attentive journeyings afield. To
produce in the reader precisely the impression which the originator
feels, is impressionism, and this transfusion of spirit, tone, and
feeling, Balzac now and then accomplished, though not often.

One of the most striking of these impressionistic sketches, more
atmospheric, more simply pictorial, than any of his others, is “A
Passion in the Desert.”

A Provençal soldier of Napoleon tells the story over a bottle to a
friend, and he retells it in a letter to a lady who had just seen a
wonderful example of animal-training in a menagerie.

When General Desaix was in upper Egypt “a provincial soldier, having
fallen into the hands of the Maugrabins, was taken by these Arabs
into the deserts that lie beyond the cataracts of the Nile.” Freeing
himself, he secures a carbine, a dagger, a horse, and some provisions,
and makes away. But, eager to see camp once more, he rides his horse to
death and finds himself alone in the desert.

At length he seeks shelter and sleep in a grotto, but awakens to
find his asylum shared by a huge lioness. He considers well the
possibilities while he waits for her to wake. When she opens her eyes
her pretty, coquettish movements remind him of “a dainty woman.” The
soldier expects immediate conflict and draws his dagger; but the
lioness stares steadily at him for a moment, then walks slowly but
confidently toward him. Forcing himself to smile into her face, he
reaches out his hand caressingly, and she accepts these overtures with
seeming pleasure, even purrs like a cat, but the sound is so loud that
it is not unlike the dying notes of a church organ. Believing himself
safe for the present, the man rises and leaves the grotto; she follows,
rubbing against his legs and uttering a wild, peculiar cry, whereupon
he again goes through the petting motions usual with domestic animals,
at the same time weighing the chance of killing her with one blow
of his weapon. On her side, the lioness scrutinizes him kindly, yet
prudently--then she licks his shoes.

Visions of what may happen when his unwelcome companion is hungry bring
a shudder to the soldier. He tries to come and go, as an experiment,
but her eyes never leave him for the fraction of a minute. Near
the spring he sees the remains of his horse partly consumed--and
understands her forbearance thus far. He determines to try to tame her
ladyship and to win her affection. In these endeavors the day wears on
until she becomes responsive enough to his voice to turn to him when he
calls “Mignonne.”

The Provençal is now relying on his nimble feet to take him out of
danger so soon as the lioness is asleep, and when the right moment
comes he walks quickly in the direction of the Nile. But he has gone
only a short distance when he hears her in pursuit, uttering the same
wild cry. Even in this extremity the Frenchman reflects humorously,
“It may be that this young lioness has never met a man before; it is
flattering to possess her first love!”

He accompanies his hostess back to the grotto, and from this moment
feels that the desert has become friendly, human; and he sleeps. When
he awakes he sees nothing of Mignonne until, upon ascending the hill,
he discovers her bounding along in his direction. Her chops are bloody;
but she manifests her pleasure in his society by beginning to play like
a large puppy.

Several days go by filled with warring sensations for the Frenchman.
Solitude reveals her mysteries, and he feels their charm. He studies
the effects of the moon on the limitless sand; the wonderful light of
the Orient; the terrifying spectacle of a storm on the plain where sand
rises in death-dealing clouds. In the cool nights he imagines music in
the heavens above. He ponders on his past life.

The magnetic will of the Provençal seems to control brute nature,
or else she has not felt the pangs of hunger, for her amiability is
unbroken, and he trusts her completely. Whatever she may be doing,
she stops short at the word “Mignonne.” One day when he shows acute
interest in a flying eagle, the lioness is evidently jealous, and the
Provençal now declares that “she has a soul.”

Here the lady who received the Provençal’s letter about his adventure
wants to know how it ended. He replies that “it ended as all great
passions do, by a misunderstanding,” and goes on to explain that he
must have unintentionally hurt the lioness’s feelings, as one day she
turned and caught his thigh in her teeth. Fearing she meant to kill
him, the soldier plunged his dagger into her throat, but his remorse
was immediate; he felt that he had murdered a friend.
