
The brief outlines of two stories must suffice to illustrate a third
and more characteristic phase of Balzac’s genius--his sternness as _The
Recorder of Tragedy_. Both are romantic themes treated with relentless
realism of detail.

The first story bears the Spanish title, _El Verdugo_ (“The
Executioner”).

During the Napoleonic era, a certain Spanish town, Menda, is under
French government. A suspicion that the Spanish Marquis de Légañès
has made an attempt to raise the country in favor of Ferdinand VII
has caused a battalion of French soldiers to be placed here, the
garrison of occupation being in command of one Victor Marchand. On
the night of the feast-day of St. James, the English capture the town,
but Clara, the daughter of the old Spanish nobleman, had warned the
young French Commandant, Marchand, with whom she was in love, and he
had escaped. The English suspect her father of having made Marchand’s
escape possible, so the entire family of the Marquis is condemned to be
hanged. The old noble offers to the English general all that he has if
he will spare the life of his youngest son, and allow the rest to be
beheaded instead of ignominiously hanged. Both requests are granted.
The Marquis then goes to his youngest son, Juanito, and commands him
that for this day he shall be the executioner. After heart-breaking
protests, the lad is compelled to yield. As his sister Clara places her
head on the block, the young French officer, Victor, now friendly with
the English, runs to her and tells her that if she will marry him her
life will be saved. Her only reply is to her brother, “Now, Juanito,”
and her head falls at the feet of her lover. When the day is done, the
youngest son, Juanito, is alone. To save the family honor, he has been
the executioner of the day.

Only a little less tragic is “The Conscript,” which is part sketch,
part short-story.

Madame de Dey, aged thirty-eight, is the widow of a lieutenant-general.
She is possessed of a great soul and an attractive personality. During
the Reign of Terror she takes refuge in the village of Carentan.
Motives of policy influence her to open her house every evening to
the principal citizens, Revolutionary authorities, and the like. Her
only relative in the world is her son, aged twenty, whom she adores.
The Mayor, and others in authority in the town, aspire to marry her,
but her heart is bound up in her boy. Suddenly her _salon_ is closed
without explanation. Two nights pass, and gossip finds all sorts of
reasons--she is hiding a lover; or her son; or a priest. The third day
in the morning an old merchant insists upon seeing her. She shows him a
letter written by her son in prison, saying he hopes to escape within
three days and will come to her house. This is the third day, and she
is greatly agitated. The merchant tells her that people are suspicious,
and that she must surely receive as usual that night. Then he goes out
and spreads plausible tales of her recent extreme illness and marvelous
cure. That night many come to see for themselves, and, notwithstanding
her terrible anxiety, she keeps up until they all go--except the
Public Prosecutor, who is one of her suitors. He tells her he knows
she is expecting her son Auguste, and that if he comes she must get
him away early in the morning, as he, the Prosecutor, must come then
with a “denunciation,” to search her house. While they talk, a young
man arrives and is taken to the room prepared for Auguste. When she
discovers him to be only a conscript sent there by the Mayor, her grief
is great. After spending the night awake in her room, still listening
for her boy’s arrival, she is found at daybreak dead--at the hour when,
unknown to his mother, her son was shot at Morbihan.
