
No view of Balzac, the short-story writer, would be complete without
considering him as _The Social Philosopher_--by far his preponderating
character also as a novelist.

There are not lacking undiscerning folk who judge Balzac’s
short-stories by the tone of his _Contes Drolatiques_. It is far from
true, however, that Balzac preferred to deal with the corrupt side of
life. In reality, he was a great moralist, with robust convictions
of right and wrong, and a nicely balanced moral judgment. Yet this
contradictory spirit did wallow in filthy imaginations all too often,
committed personal follies, pictured the courtesan and the pander,
marital infidelity and sordidness in countless manifestations. But
let it be remembered that he chose to depict a society which was not
only the product of his age, but the outcome of a national life. No one
could be more fearless in exposing vice, and while it may be questioned
whether the world greatly profits morally by such vivid picturings, it
cannot be doubted that Balzac’s social philosophy was not that of the
literary pander. His soul had altitude, as one has said, as well as
latitude.

Balzac was keenly sensitive to criticism of his moral influence, and
himself answered the charge of being a creator of vicious feminine
types:

“The author cannot end these remarks without publishing here the
result of a conscientious examination which his critics have forced
him to make in relation to the number of virtuous women and criminal
women whom he has placed on the literary stage. As soon as his first
terror left him time to reflect, his first care was to collect his
_corps d’armée_, in order to see if the balance which ought to be
found between those two elements of his written world was exact,
relatively to the measure of vice and virtue which enters into the
composition of our present morals. He found himself rich by thirty-odd
virtuous women against twenty-two criminal women, whom he here takes
the liberty of ranging in order of battle, in order that the immense
results already obtained may not be disputed. To this he adds that
he has not counted-in a number of virtuous women whom he has left in
the shade--where so many of them are in real life.” (Here followed
tabulated lists of his prominent women characters, as arranged by
himself).

In considering the big plot of the social study, _La Grande
Brétêche_--not perfectly translated “The Great House”--we are
interestingly reminded of the similar _motifs_ in Poe’s “The Cask of
Amontillado,” and Mrs. Wharton’s “The Duchess at Prayer”--just as our
author’s “A Seashore Drama” recalls the more artistic story of fatherly
execution, “Mateo Falcone,” by Mèrimèe.

In _La Grande Brétêche_ a company of friends are spending an evening
together and one is asked to tell a story--a conventional opening
enough.

He describes a house which has been deserted, the large and once
beautiful gardens overgrown with weeds. Neglect and decay are
everywhere. The story of the house is this--told with much Balzacian
preliminary circumstance:

Monsieur de Merret one night came home quite late, and as he was about
to enter his wife’s apartments he heard a closet door, opening into her
room, close very quietly. He thought it was his wife’s maid, but just
then the maid entered the room from another door. The husband sent the
maid away and asked his wife who had gone into the closet. She answered
him that no one was there.

He said, “I believe you. I will not open it. But see, here is your
crucifix--swear before God that there is no one in there. I will
believe you--I will never open that door.”

Madame de Merret took up the crucifix and said, “I swear it.”

Monsieur de Merret sent away the servants--all but one trusted one.
He then sent for a mason, and had the closet securely walled in. At
dawn the work was completed, the mason had gone, and Monsieur, on some
pretext, left the house. As soon as he was gone, Madame de Merret
called her maid, and together they began to tear down the wall--hoping
to replace the bricks before Monsieur returned. They had just begun the
work when Monsieur entered the room. For twenty days he remained in
his wife’s apartment, and when a noise was heard in the closet and she
wished to intercede for the dying man, her husband would answer:

“You swore on the cross that there was no one there.”

No need even for a Balzac to read a moral!

A fifth side of Balzac’s genius is sweeter to contemplate--that of
_The Idealistic Philosopher_. Take time to read _The Personal Opinions
of Honoré de Balzac_, edited by Katharine Prescott Wormeley, you who
would know how the man interpreted himself, and you will find idealism
lifting its lily crest from the field of ooze.

Doubtless “A Legend of Jesus Christ in Flanders” is Balzac’s most
ethically idealistic story--a true symbolical tale of Hawthorne’s
legendary type.

Night was falling. The ferry-boat that carried passengers from the
island of Cadzand to Ostend was ready to depart. Just then a man
appeared who wished to enter the boat. It was already full. There
was no place in the stern for the stranger, for the “aristocrats” of
Flanders were seated there--a baroness, a cavalier, a young lady, a
bishop, a rich merchant, and a doctor. So he made his way to the bow,
where the more humble folk were seated. They at once made room for him.

As soon as the boat had moved out on the water, the skipper called to
his rowers to pull with all their might, for they were in the face of a
storm. All the while the tempest was growing more terrifying, and all
the while the men and women in the boat questioned in their hearts who
might the stranger be. On his face shone a light and a quiet peace
they could not understand.

Finally, the boat was capsized. Then the stranger said to them, “Those
who have faith shall be saved; let them follow me.” With a firm step he
walked upon the waves, and those who followed him came safe to shore.

When they were all seated near the fire in a fisherman’s hut, they
looked round for the man who had brought them safely out of the sea.
But he was not there, having gone down to the water to rescue the
skipper, who had been washed ashore. He carried him to the door of the
hut, and when the door of the humble refuge was opened, the Saviour
disappeared--for it was He.

And so on this spot the convent of Mercy was built, as a shelter for
storm-beleaguered sailors, and it was said by humble folk that for many
years the foot-prints of Jesus Christ could be seen there in the sands
of Flanders.
