
There is little charm in Balzac’s work, much coarseness, much detail
of vileness, much to cause the sensitive to shudder; but there is
much, too, that causes the soul to judge itself honestly, and many a
beauty-crowned peak rising nobly from the valley darkness.

In the story which here follows in full, in translation, appear all of
Balzac’s characteristic traits. Happily, its theme leads us above the
sordid and the filthy, up to the heights which he knew and sometimes
extolled.

“An Episode Under the Terror,” which Ferdinand Brunetière has
pronounced to be “in its artistic brevity one of Balzac’s most tragic
and finished narratives,” was written in 1830 as an introduction to the
fictitious Memoirs of Sanson, who is the Stranger referred to in the
story.




                      AN EPISODE UNDER THE TERROR
                    (_UN ÉPISODE SOUS LA TERREUR_)

                          By Honoré de Balzac

                   _Done into English by the Editor_


On the twenty-second of January, 1793, about eight o’clock in the
evening, an old lady was walking down the steep hill that ends in front
of the church of Saint Laurent, in the Faubourg Saint Martin in Paris.
It had snowed so much throughout the day that foot-falls could scarcely
be heard. The streets were deserted. The very natural dread inspired
by the silence was augmented by all the terror which at that time
caused France to groan; then, too, the old lady had not as yet met any
one; her sight had long been feeble, so for this and for other reasons
she could not discern by the lights of the lanterns the few distant
passers-by, who were scattered like phantoms on the broad highway of
the quarter. She went on courageously alone through that solitude, as
though her age were a talisman which would preserve her from all evil.

When she had passed the rue des Morts, she thought she could
distinguish the heavy and resolute steps of a man walking behind her.
She fancied that she had heard that sound before; she was frightened
at having been followed, and tried to walk more rapidly in order to
reach a brightly lighted shop, hoping to be able in the light to settle
the suspicions that had seized her. As soon as she found herself within
the direct rays of light which came from the shop, she quickly turned
her head and glimpsed a human form in the haze; that indistinct vision
sufficed. She faltered a moment under the weight of the terror which
oppressed her, for she doubted no longer that she had been followed
by the stranger from the first step that she had taken outside of her
home, but the desire to escape from a spy lent her strength. Incapable
of reasoning, she doubled her pace, as though she could escape from
a man who was, necessarily, more agile than she. After running for
several minutes she reached the shop of a pastry-cook, rushed in, and
tumbled rather than sat down upon a chair in front of the counter.

The moment she rattled the door-latch, a young woman who was occupied
in embroidering raised her eyes, recognized through the glass
partition the old-fashioned mantle of violet silk in which the old
lady was enveloped, and hastened to open a drawer, as though to take
out something which she intended to give her. Not only did the young
woman’s movement and expression indicate a wish to be rid promptly of
the unknown, as if she were one of those persons whom one is not glad
to see, but she even allowed an expression of impatience to escape her
upon finding that the drawer was empty; then, without looking at the
lady, she rushed from the counter, turned toward the back shop, and
called her husband, who appeared immediately.

“Now, where did you put--,” she demanded of him, with a mysterious air,
and designated the old lady by a turn of the eye, without finishing her
sentence.

Although the pastry-cook could see only the immense black silk bonnet,
surrounded by knots of violet ribbons, which formed the head-dress
of the unknown, he turned away, after having given his wife a look
which seemed to say, “Did you suppose that I would leave _that_ on
your counter?” and quickly disappeared. Astounded by the old lady’s
silence and immobility, the tradeswoman walked toward her, and as she
examined her she was conscious of a feeling of compassion, and perhaps
also of curiosity. Although the stranger’s complexion was naturally
pallid, like that of a person vowed to secret austerities, it was easy
to recognize that some recent emotion had given her an extraordinary
pallor. Her head-dress was so disposed as to hide her hair--doubtless
whitened by age, since the neatness of the collar of her dress
proclaimed that she did not use hair-powder. That article of adornment
lent to her figure a sort of religious severity. Her features were
grave and dignified. Formerly the manners and the habitudes of people
of quality were so different from those of people belonging to the
other classes that one easily divined a person of the nobility. So the
young woman was herself persuaded that the unknown was a member of the
outlawed nobility, and that she had belonged to the court.

“Madame--” she said to her, involuntarily, and with respect, forgetting
that this title was proscribed.

The old lady did not respond. She held her eyes fixed upon the window
of the shop, as if some terrifying object had there been descried.

“What is the matter, Citizeness?” asked the proprietor of the shop who
reappeared at that moment.

The citizen pastry-cook aroused the lady from her revery by handing to
her a little pasteboard box, covered with blue paper.

“Nothing, nothing, my friends,” she replied in a mild voice.

She raised her eyes to the pastry-cook as though to cast upon him a
glance of gratitude; but upon seeing him with a red bonnet upon his
head, she allowed a cry to escape her:

“Ah! you have betrayed me!”

The young woman and her husband replied by a gesture of horror which
caused the Unknown to blush--perhaps for having suspicion, perhaps from
pleasure.

“Excuse me,” she said, with a childlike gentleness.

Then, taking a _louis d’or_ from her pocket, she presented it to the
pastry-cook.

“Here is the price agreed upon,” she added.

There is an indigence which the poor know how to divine. The
pastry-cook and his wife looked at each other and watched the old lady,
while they exchanged the same thought. That _louis d’or_ seemed to
be the last. The hands of the lady trembled in offering that piece,
which she looked upon with sadness and without avarice, for she seemed
to realize the full extent of the sacrifice. Fasting and misery were
graven upon that face in lines quite as legible as those of fear and
her habits of asceticism. There were in her garments some vestiges
of magnificence: the silk was threadbare, the cloak neat though
old-fashioned, the lace carefully mended--in short, the tatters of
opulence! The tradespeople, placed between pity and self-interest,
commenced to solace their consciences by words:

“But Citizeness, you seem very feeble--”

“Perhaps Madame would like to take some refreshment?” asked the woman,
cutting the words of her husband short.

“We are not so black as we are painted!” cried the pastry-cook.

“It’s so cold! Madame was perhaps chilled by her walk? But you may rest
here and warm yourself a little.”

Won by the tone of benevolence which animated the words of the
charitable shopkeepers, the lady avowed that she had been followed by a
stranger, and that she was afraid to return home alone.

“It is no more than that?” replied the man with the red hat. “Wait for
me, Citizeness.”

He gave the _louis_ to his wife; then, moved by that species of
restitution which glides into the conscience of a merchant when he has
received an exorbitant price for merchandise of mediocre value, he went
to put on his uniform of the National Guard, took his chapeau, thrust
his sabre into his belt, and reappeared under arms; but his wife had
had time to reflect. As in many other hearts, reflection closed the
hand opened by beneficence. Disturbed, and fearing to see her husband
in a bad affair, the pastry-cook’s wife essayed to stop him by tugging
at the skirt of his coat. But, obedient to a sentiment of charity, the
brave man offered to escort the old lady at once.

“It seems that the man who frightened the Citizeness is still prowling
about the shop,” said the young woman nervously.

“I am afraid so,” artlessly replied the lady.

“If he should be a spy! If it should be a conspiracy! Don’t go; and
take back from her the box.”

These words, breathed into the ear of the pastry-cook by his wife,
froze the impromptu courage which had possessed him.

“Eh’ I’ll just go out and say two words to him, and rid you of him
quickly,” cried the pastry-cook, opening the door and rushing out.

The old lady, passive as an infant, and almost dazed, reseated herself
upon the chair. The honest merchant was not slow in reappearing; his
face, naturally red, and still more flushed by the heat of his oven,
had suddenly become livid; such a great fright agitated him that his
legs trembled and his eyes looked like those of a drunken man.

“Do you wish to have our heads cut off, miserable aristocrat?” he
shrieked at her with fury. “Just show us your heels, never come back
here again, and don’t count any more on me to furnish you the stuff
for conspiracy.”

As he ejaculated these words, the pastry-cook tried to take from the
old lady the little box which she had put in one of her pockets. But
scarcely had the bold hands of the pastry-cook touched her vestments
than the Unknown, preferring to face the dangers of her way home
without other defense than God, rather than to lose that which she had
come to purchase, recovered the agility of her youth; she darted toward
the door, opened it abruptly, and disappeared before the eyes of the
stupefied and trembling woman and her husband.

As soon as the Unknown found herself outside, she began walking
rapidly; but her strength soon failed her, for she heard the spy by
whom she was pitilessly followed make the snow craunch under the
pressure of his heavy steps. She was obliged to stop--he stopped. She
dared neither to speak to him nor to look at him, whether on account
of the fear with which she was seized or from lack of intelligence.
She continued her way, walking slowly; thereupon the man slackened
his steps so as to remain standing at a distance which permitted him
to keep his eye upon her. He seemed to be the very shadow of that
old woman. Nine o’clock was striking when the silent couple repassed
in front of the church of Saint Laurent. It is in the nature of all
souls, even the most infirm, that a feeling of calm should succeed
one of violent agitation, for if our feelings are infinite, our
organs are limited. And so the Unknown, not experiencing any harm
from her supposed persecutor, chose to see in him a secret friend,
eager to protect her. She reconstructed all the circumstances which
had accompanied the Stranger’s appearances, as if to find plausible
arguments for that consoling opinion, and she then took pleasure in
recognizing in him good rather than evil intentions.

Forgetting the fright which that man had inspired in the pastry-cook,
she advanced with a firm step into the higher regions of the Faubourg
Saint-Martin. After a half-hour of walking, she reached a house
situated near the junction formed by the main street of the Faubourg
and that which leads to the Barrière de Pantin. Even to-day that spot
is one of the most deserted of all Paris. The north wind, passing over
the Buttes Chaumont and from Bellville, whistles athwart the houses, or
rather the hovels, scattered about in that almost uninhabited valley
where the dividing lines are walls made of earth and bones. That
desolate place seemed to be the natural asylum of misery and despair.
The man who had persisted in the pursuit of the poor creature who
had the hardihood to traverse those silent streets at night seemed
impressed by the spectacle presented to his eyes. He rested pensively,
standing and in an attitude of hesitation, in the feeble light of a
lantern whose uncertain rays with difficulty pierced the mist.

Fear gave eyes to the old woman, who fancied that she could perceive
something sinister in the features of the Stranger. She felt her
terrors reawake, and profited by the sort of uncertainty which had
retarded the man’s advance to glide in the darkness toward the door of
the lonely house. She pressed a spring, and disappeared like a ghost.

The Stranger, immobile, contemplated that house, which stood in some
sort as the type of the miserable habitations of the quarter. That
rickety hovel, built of rubble, was covered by a coat of yellow
plaster, so deeply cracked that one thought to see it tumble before
the least effort of the wind. The roof, of brown tiles and covered
with moss, had so sunk in several places as to make it seem likely
to give way under the weight of the snow. Each floor there had three
windows, whose sashes, rotted by dampness and disjointed by the action
of the sun, announced that the cold must penetrate into the room. That
isolated house resembled an old tower which time had forgotten to
destroy. A feeble light shone through the windows which irregularly
cleft the mansard roof by which the poor edifice was crowned, while
all the rest of the house was in complete obscurity. The old woman
climbed, not without difficulty, the steep and rough staircase, whose
length was supplied with a rope in the guise of a baluster. She knocked
mysteriously at the door of the apartment which she found in the attic,
and dropped hastily upon a chair which an old man offered her.

“Hide! hide yourself!” she said to him. “Although we go out very
rarely, our movements are known, our footsteps are spied upon.”

“What is there new in that?” demanded another old lady, seated beside
the fire.

“The man who has been prowling around the house since yesterday
followed me to-night.”

At these words the three occupants of the attic regarded one another,
allowing signs of profound terror to appear on their faces. The old
man was the least agitated of the three, perhaps because he was in the
greatest danger. Under the weight of a great calamity, or under the
yoke of persecution, a courageous man begins, so to say, by making the
sacrifice of himself; he looks upon his days as just so many victories
won back from destiny. The looks of the two women, fastened upon this
old man, made it easy to divine that he was the sole object of their
intense solicitude.

“Why despair of God, my sisters?” said he in a voice low but
impressive. “We sang His praises amid the cries which the assassins
raised, and the groans of the dying at the Carmelite convent. If He
decreed that I should be saved from that butchery, it was doubtless
in order to reserve me for a destiny which I must accept without
murmuring. God protects his own, He may dispose of them at His
pleasure. It is of you, and not of me, that we must think.”

“No,” said one of the old ladies; “what are our lives in comparison
with that of a priest?”

“When once I found myself outside of the Abbey of Chelles, I considered
myself as dead,” said that one of the two nuns who had not gone out.

“Here,” replied the one who had come in, handing the priest the little
box, “here are the wafers.... But,” she cried, “I hear some one
mounting the stairs!”

All three thereupon listened intently. The sounds ceased.

“Do not be affrighted,” said the priest, “if some one should essay to
enter. A person upon whose fidelity we can count has undoubtedly taken
all needful measures to pass the frontier, and will come to seek the
letters which I have written to the Duc de Langeais and to the Marquis
de Beauséant, asking them to consider the means of rescuing you from
this terrible country, from the death or the misery which awaits you
here.”

“You do not mean to go with us, then?” cried the two nuns gently,
manifesting a sort of despair.

“My place is where there are victims,” said the priest with simplicity.

They remained silent, and gazed at their companion with devout
admiration.

“Sister Martha,” he said, addressing the nun who had gone to get the
wafers, “that messenger I speak of will reply ‘_Fiat voluntas_’ to the
word ‘_Hosanna_.’”

“There is some one on the stairs!” cried the other nun, opening the
door of a hiding-place under the roof.

This time they could easily hear, amid the most profound silence,
the footsteps of a man resounding upon the stairs, whose treads were
covered with ridges made by the hardened mud. The priest crept with
difficulty into a species of cupboard, and the nun threw over him some
garments.

“You may close the door, Sister Agatha,” said he in a muffled voice.

The priest was scarcely hidden before three taps on the door gave a
shock to the two saintly women, who consulted each other with their
eyes, without daring to pronounce a single word. They each seemed to be
about sixty years old. Separated from the world for forty years, they
were like plants habituated to the air of a hothouse, which wilt if
they are taken from it. Accustomed to the life of a convent, they were
no longer able to conceive of any other. One morning, their grating
having been shattered, they shuddered to find themselves free. One can
easily imagine the species of artificial imbecility which the events
of the Revolution had produced in their innocent hearts. Incapable of
reconciling their conventual ideas with the difficulties of life, and
not even comprehending their situation, they resembled those children
who have been zealously cared for hitherto, and who, abandoned by
their motherly protector, pray instead of weeping. And so, in face of
the danger which they apprehended at that moment, they remained mute
and passive, having no conception of any other defense than Christian
resignation.

The man who desired to enter interpreted that silence in his own
manner. He opened the door and appeared suddenly before them. The two
nuns shuddered as they recognized the man who for some time had been
prowling about their house and making inquiries about them. They
remained stock-still, but gazed at him with anxious curiosity, after
the manner of savage children, who examine strangers in silence.

The man was tall and large; but nothing in his demeanor, in his
air, nor in his physiognomy indicated an evil man. He imitated the
immobility of the nuns, and moved his eyes slowly about the room in
which he found himself.

Two straw mats, laid upon boards, served the two nuns as beds. A single
table was in the middle of the room and upon it they had placed a
copper candlestick, a few plates, three knives, and a round loaf of
bread. The fire on the hearth was meagre. A few sticks of wood piled in
a corner attested the poverty of the two recluses. The walls, coated
with an ancient layer of paint, proved the bad state of the roof, for
stains like brown threads marked the infiltrations of the rainwater.
A relic, rescued doubtless from the pillage of the Abbey of Chelles,
adorned the chimney mantel. Three chairs, two coffers, and a wretched
chest of drawers completed the furniture of the room. A door beside the
chimney allowed one to conjecture the existence of a second chamber.

The inventory of the cell was speedily made by the person who had
thrust himself under such alarming auspices into the midst of that
group. A sentiment of commiseration painted itself upon his face, and
he cast a benevolent glance upon the two women, at least as embarrassed
as they. The singular silence preserved by all three lasted but a
short time, for the Stranger at last divined the moral simplicity and
the inexperience of the two poor creatures, and he said to them in
a voice which he tried to soften: “I do not come here as an enemy,
Citizenesses.”

He paused, and then resumed: “My sisters, if there should come to you
any misfortune, believe that I have not contributed to it.... I have a
favor to ask of you.”

They still maintained their silence.

“If I seem importunate, if ... I embarrass you, tell me so freely....
I will go; but understand that I am entirely devoted to you; that if
there is any good office that I am able to render you, you may employ
me without fear; and that I alone, perhaps, am above the law, since
there is no longer a king.”

There was such an accent of truth in these words that Sister Agatha,
the one of the two nuns who belonged to the family of Langeais,
and whose manners seemed to say that she had formerly known the
magnificence of fêtes and had breathed the air of the court, instantly
pointed to one of the chairs, as if to ask their guest to be seated.
The Stranger manifested a sort of joy mingled with sadness as he
recognized that gesture; and he waited until the two venerable women
were seated, before seating himself.

“You have given shelter,” he continued, “to a venerable unsworn priest,
who has miraculously escaped the massacre at the Carmelites.”

“_Hosanna!_” said Sister Agatha, interrupting the Stranger, and gazing
at him with anxious inquiry.

“I don’t think that is his name,” he replied.

“But, monsieur,” said Sister Martha hastily, “we haven’t any priest
here, and----”

“In that case, you must be more careful and more prudent,” retorted the
Stranger gently, reaching to the table and taking up a breviary. “I do
not believe that you understand Latin, and----”

He did not continue, for the extraordinary emotion depicted on the
faces of the two poor nuns made him feel that he had gone too far; they
were trembling, and their eyes were filled with tears.

“Reassure yourselves,” he said to them in a cheery voice; “I know the
name of your guest, and yours; and three days ago I was informed of
your destination and of your devotion to the venerable Abbé of----”

“_Chut!_” said Sister Agatha naïvely, putting her finger to her lips.

“You see, my sisters, that if I had formed the horrible design of
betraying you, I might already have accomplished it more than once.”

When he heard these words, the priest emerged from his prison and
reappeared in the middle of the room.

“I cannot believe, monsieur,” he said to the Stranger, “that you can be
one of our persecutors, and I have faith in you. What do you want of
me?”

The saintlike confidence of the priest, the nobility that shone in
all his features, would have disarmed assassins. The mysterious
personage who had enlivened that scene of misery and resignation gazed
for a moment at the group formed by these three; then he assumed a
confidential tone, and addressed the priest in these words:

“Father, I have come to implore you to celebrate a mortuary mass for
the repose of the soul of a--a consecrated person, whose body, however,
will never repose in holy ground.”

The priest involuntarily shuddered. The two nuns, not understanding as
yet of whom the Stranger was speaking, stood with necks outstretched,
and faces turned towards the two speakers in an attitude of curiosity.
The ecclesiastic scrutinized the Stranger; unfeigned anxiety was
depicted upon his face, and his eyes expressed the most ardent
supplication.

“Very well,” replied the priest; “to-night, at midnight, return, and I
shall be ready to celebrate the only funeral service which we can offer
in expiation of the crime of which you speak.”

The Stranger started; but a satisfaction, at once gentle and solemn,
seemed to triumph over some secret grief. After having respectfully
saluted the priest and the two holy women, he disappeared, manifesting
a sort of mute gratitude which was comprehended by those three noble
hearts.

About two hours after this scene the Stranger returned, knocked
discreetly at the attic door, and was admitted by Mademoiselle de
Beauséant, who conducted him into the second room of that modest
retreat, where everything had been prepared for the ceremony.

Between the flues of the chimney the two nuns had carried the old
chest of drawers, whose decrepit outlines were concealed beneath a
magnificent altar-cloth of green moiré silk. A large crucifix of
ebony and ivory was fastened upon the yellow wall, which served to
emphasize its nakedness, and irresistibly drew the eye. Four little
fluttering wax-tapers, which the sisters had succeeded in fixing upon
that improvised altar by means of sealing wax, threw a light pale and
sickly, which was reflected by the wall. That feeble glow scarcely
illuminated the rest of the room, but by shedding its glory only over
those holy things upon that unadorned altar, it seemed a ray from the
torch of heaven. The floor was damp. The roof, which on two sides
declined abruptly, as in a loft, had several cracks, through which
passed an icy wind.

Nothing displayed less pomp, and yet perhaps nothing could have been
more solemn than that sad ceremony.

A profound silence that would have permitted them to hear the faintest
sound on distant thoroughfares diffused a sort of sombre majesty over
that nocturnal scene. In short, the grandeur of the occasion contrasted
so strongly with the poverty of the surroundings that the result was a
sentiment of religious awe. On either side of the altar, the two old
nuns, kneeling on the damp floor, heedless of the deadly moisture,
prayed in concert with the priest, who, clad in his pontifical
vestments, prepared a golden chalice ornamented with precious stones,
a consecrated vessel rescued doubtless from the pillage of the Abbey
of Chelles. Beside that pyx, a monument of royal magnificence, were
the water and wine destined for the sacrament, contained in two
glasses scarcely worthy of the lowest tavern. In default of a missal,
the priest had placed his breviary on a corner of the altar. A common
plate was provided for the washing of those innocent hands, pure of
bloodshed. All was majestic, and yet paltry; poor, but noble; profane
and holy at the same time. The Stranger knelt piously between the two
nuns. But suddenly, when he noticed a band of crape on the chalice and
on the crucifix--for, having nothing to indicate the purpose of that
mortuary mass, the priest had draped God Himself in mourning--he was
assailed by such an overpowering memory that drops of sweat gathered
upon his broad forehead. The four silent actors in that scene gazed at
one another mysteriously; then their hearts, acting upon one another,
communicated their sentiments to one another and flowed together into a
single religious commiseration; it was as if their thoughts had evoked
the martyr whose remains had been devoured by quicklime, and whose
shade stood before them in all its royal majesty. They celebrated an
_obit_ without the body of the deceased. Beneath those disjointed tiles
and laths, four Christians had come to intercede before God for a king
of France, and perform his obsequies without a bier. It was the purest
of all possible devotions, an astounding act of fidelity, accomplished
without a selfish thought. Doubtless, in the eyes of God, it was like
the cup of cold water which balances the greatest virtues. The whole of
monarchy was there, in the prayers of a priest and of two poor women;
but perhaps also the Revolution was represented, by that man whose face
betrayed too much remorse not to cause a belief that he was fulfilling
the vows of an immense repentance.

In lieu of pronouncing the Latin words, “_Introibo ad altare Dei_,”
etc., the priest, by a divine inspiration, looked at the three
assistants who represented Christian France, and said to them, in order
to efface the poverty of that wretched place:

“We are about to enter into the sanctuary of God!”

At these words, uttered with an impressive unction, a holy awe
seized the assistant and the two nuns. Beneath the arches of St.
Peter’s at Rome God could not have appeared with more majesty than
He then appeared in that asylum of poverty, before the eyes of those
Christians; so true is it that between man and Him every intermediary
seems useless, and that He derives His grandeur from Himself alone.
The fervor of the Stranger was genuine, and so the sentiment which
united the prayers of those four servitors of God and the king was
unanimous. The sacred words rang out like celestial music amid the
silence. There was a moment when tears choked the Stranger; it was
during the paternoster. The priest added to it this Latin prayer, which
was evidently understood by the Stranger: “_Et remitte scelus regicidis
sicut Ludovicus eis remisit semetipse!_ (And pardon the guilt of the
regicides even as Louis himself forgave them!)”

The two nuns saw two great tears leave a humid trace adown the manly
cheeks of the Stranger, and fall upon the floor. The Office for the
Dead was recited. The _Domine salvum fac regem_, chanted in a deep
voice, touched the hearts of those faithful royalists, who reflected
that the infant king, for whom at that moment they were supplicating
the Most High, was a prisoner in the hands of his enemies. The Stranger
shuddered at the thought that there might yet be committed a new crime,
in which he would doubtless be forced to participate. When the funeral
service was terminated, the priest made a sign to the two nuns, who
retired. As soon as he found himself alone with the Stranger, he walked
towards him with a mild and melancholy expression, and said to him in a
paternal voice:

“My son, if you have dipped your hands in the blood of the martyr
king, confess yourself to me. There is no sin which, in the eyes of
God, may not be effaced by repentance as touching and sincere as yours
seems to be.”

At the first words pronounced by the ecclesiastic, the Stranger allowed
an involuntary movement of terror to escape him; but he resumed a calm
countenance, and regarded the astonished priest with assurance.

“Father,” he said to him in a perceptibly altered voice, “no one is
more innocent than I of bloodshed.”

“I am bound to believe you,” said the priest.

There was a pause, during which he examined his penitent more closely;
then, persisting in taking him for one of those timid members of the
Convention who sacrificed an inviolable and consecrated head in order
to preserve their own, he continued in a solemn voice:

“Remember, my son, that it is not enough, in order to be absolved
from that great crime, not to have actually taken part in it. Those
who, when they might have defended the king, left their swords in the
scabbard, will have a very heavy account to render before the King of
the Heavens.... Ah, yes!” added the old priest, shaking his head with
an expressive movement, “yes, very heavy; for, by remaining idle, they
became the involuntary accomplices of that hideous crime.”

“Do you think,” demanded the stupefied Stranger, “that an indirect
participation will be punished?... The soldier who is ordered to join
the shooting-squad, is he also culpable?”

The priest hesitated. Pleased with the dilemma in which he had placed
that puritan of royalty by planting him between the dogma of passive
obedience, which, according to the partisans of monarchy, dominates
the military codes, and the no less important dogma which consecrates
the respect due to the persons of kings, the Stranger was ready to see
in the hesitation of the priest a favorable solution of the doubts
by which he seemed to be tormented. Then, in order not to allow the
venerable Jansenist any more time to reflect, he said to him:

“I should blush to offer you any sort of compensation for the funeral
service which you have celebrated for the repose of the king’s soul
and for the relief of my conscience. One cannot pay for an inestimable
thing except by an offering which is also priceless. Deign, then,
monsieur, to accept the gift of a blessed relic which I offer you. A
day will come, perhaps, when you will understand its value.”

As he said these words, the Stranger handed the ecclesiastic a small
box of light weight; the priest took it involuntarily, so to speak,
for the solemnity of the man’s words, the tone in which he said them,
and the respect with which he handled the box, had plunged him into a
profound surprise. They then returned to the room where the two nuns
were awaiting them.

“You are,” said the Stranger, “in a house whose owner, Mucius Scaevola,
the plasterer who occupies the first floor, is celebrated throughout
the section for his patriotism; but he is secretly attached to the
Bourbons. He used to be a huntsman of Monseigneur the Prince of Conti,
and to him he owes his fortune. If you do not go out of his house,
you are in greater safety here than in any place else in France. Stay
here. Devout hearts will attend to your necessities, and you may await
without danger less evil times. A year hence, on the twenty-first of
January”--(in uttering these words he could not conceal an involuntary
movement)--“if you continue to adopt this dismal place of asylum, I
will return to celebrate with you the expiatory mass.”

He said no more. He bowed to the silent occupants of the attic, cast a
last glance upon the evidences which testified of their indigence, and
went away.

To the two innocent nuns, such an adventure had all the interest of
a romance; and so, as soon as the venerable abbé informed them of the
mysterious gift so solemnly bestowed upon him by that man, the box
was placed upon the table and the three faces, unquiet, dimly lighted
by the candle, betrayed an indescribable curiosity. Mademoiselle de
Langeais opened the box, and found therein a handkerchief of very
fine linen, drenched with perspiration; and, on unfolding it, they
recognized stains.

“It is blood!” said the priest.

“It is marked with the royal crown!” cried the other nun.

The two sisters dropped the precious relic with horror. To those two
naïve souls the mystery in which the Stranger was enveloped became
altogether inexplicable; and as for the priest, from that day he did
not even seek an explanation.

The three prisoners were not slow in perceiving that in spite of the
Terror a powerful arm was stretched over them.

In the first place, they received some wood and some provisions; then
the two nuns realized that a woman must be associated with their
protector, when some one sent them linen and clothing which enabled
them to go out without being remarked on account of the aristocratic
fashion of the garments which they had been forced to retain; and
lastly, Mucius Scaevola gave them two cards of citizenship. Often,
advice necessary to the priest’s safety reached him by devious ways;
and he found this advice so opportune that it could have been given
only by one initiated in secrets of state.

Despite the famine which prevailed in Paris, the outcasts found at
the door of their lodging rations of white bread which were regularly
brought there by invisible hands; nevertheless, they believed that
they could recognize in Mucius Scaevola the mysterious agent of that
benefaction, which was always as ingenious as it was discerning. The
noble occupants of the attic could not doubt that their protector was
the person who had come to ask the priest to celebrate the expiatory
mass on the night of the twenty-second of January, 1793; so that he
became the object of a peculiar cult of worship to those three beings,
who had no hope except in him, and lived only through him. They had
added special prayers for him to their devotions; night and morning
those pious hearts lifted their voices for his happiness, for his
prosperity, for his health, and supplicated God to deliver him from
all snares, to deliver him from his enemies, and to accord him a long
and peaceable life. Their gratitude, renewed every day, so to speak,
was necessarily accompanied by a sentiment of curiosity which became
more lively from day to day. The circumstances which had accompanied
the appearance of the Stranger were the subject of their conversations;
they formed a thousand conjectures regarding him, and the diversion
afforded them by their thoughts of him was a benefaction of a new kind.
They promised themselves not to allow the Stranger to evade their
friendship on the evening when he should return, according to his
promise, to commemorate the sad anniversary of the death of Louis XVI.

That night, so impatiently awaited, came at last. At midnight the sound
of the Stranger’s heavy steps was heard on the old wooden staircase;
the room had been arrayed to receive him, the altar was dressed. This
time the sisters opened the door beforehand and both pressed forward to
light the stairway. Mademoiselle de Langeais even went down a few steps
in order to see her benefactor the sooner.

“Come,” she said to him in a tremulous and affectionate voice, “come,
we are waiting for you.”

The man raised his head, cast a sombre glance upon the nun, and made
no reply. She felt as if a garment of ice had fallen upon her, and
she said no more; at his aspect the gratitude and curiosity expired
in all their hearts. He was perhaps less cold, less taciturn, less
terrible, than he appeared to those hearts, the exaltation of whose
feelings disposed to outpourings of friendliness. The three poor
prisoners, understanding that the man desired to remain a Stranger to
them, resigned themselves. The priest fancied that he detected upon
the Stranger’s lips a smile that was promptly repressed the moment he
saw the preparations that had been made to receive him. He heard the
mass, and prayed; but he disappeared after having responded negatively
to a few words of polite invitation upon the part of Mademoiselle de
Langeais to partake of the little collation they had prepared.

After the ninth of Thermidor, the nuns and the Abbé de Marolles were
able to go about Paris without incurring the least danger. The first
errand of the old priest was to a perfumer’s shop, at the sign of _La
Reine des Fleurs_, kept by Citizen and Citizeness Ragon, formerly
perfumers to the Court, who had remained faithful to the royal family,
and of whose services the Vendeans availed themselves to correspond
with the princes and the royalist committee in Paris. The abbé, dressed
according to the style of that epoch, was standing on the doorstep of
that shop, between Saint-Roch and _Rue des Frondeurs_, when a crowd
which filled the _Rue Saint-Honoré_ prevented him from going out.

“What is it?” he asked Madame Ragon.

“It is nothing,” she replied; “just the tumbril and the executioner,
going to the Place Louis XV. Ah, we saw him very often last year; but
to-day, four days after the anniversary of the twenty-first of January,
we can look at that horrible procession without distress.”

“Why so?” said the abbé. “It is not Christian, that which you say.”

“Eh, it’s the execution of the accomplices of Robespierre. They
defended themselves as long as they could, but they’re going now
themselves where they have sent so many innocents.”

The crowd passed like a flood. Over the sea of heads, the Abbé de
Marolles, yielding to an impulse of curiosity, saw standing on the
tumbril the man who, three days before, had listened to his mass.

“Who is that?” he said, “that man who----”

“That is the headsman,” replied Monsieur Ragon, calling the executioner
of the great by his monarchical name.

“My friend, my friend,” cried Madame Ragon, “_monsieur l’abbé_ is
fainting!”

And the old woman seized a phial of salts, in order to bring the old
priest to himself.

“Without doubt he gave me,” said he, “the handkerchief with which the
King wiped his brow when he went to his martyrdom.... Poor man! ...
That steel knife had a heart, when all France had none!”

The perfumers thought that the unhappy priest was delirious.




                       LUDOVIC HALÉVY, PARISIAN


That there is a real distinction between a short-story in French and
a French short-story, Ludovic Halévy’s fictional work illustrates
perfectly, for in theme, tone, and treatment it is French. More
specifically still, it is Parisian. As Professor Brander Matthews
observes in his discerning introduction to _Parisian Points of View_,
a collection of our author’s stories, “Cardinal Newman once said that
while Livy and Tacitus and Terence and Seneca wrote Latin, Cicero wrote
Roman; so while M. Zola on the one side, and M. Georges Ohnet on the
other, may write French, M. Halévy writes Parisian.” His was indeed
the Parisian point of view, his the sympathetic understanding of the
pursuits, the temperament, the ideals, of the dwellers in the Capital
of Europe.

One service above others Halévy rendered to his Paris: while so many
writers have given an unfortunate though piquant character to the
French short-story by depicting chiefly the _roué_ and the woman of
easy manners, the vulgar money-king and the broken-down noble, the
complacent pander and the sordid tradesman of Paris, this writer mostly
chose to depict other types. He knew the gay city as few other writers
of his day knew it, yet nearly all of his little fictions may be read
aloud in a mixed company. The explanation of this wholesome spirit is
simple--unlike the others, Halévy had not come up from the provinces
with eyes ready to pop out at the city sights. From boyhood he knew all
sides of Parisian life, and saw things in correct perspective, so he
did not interpret light-heartedness to be lightness, nor gayety to be
abandon. All sorts and conditions of men move in his stories, but the
vicious, the sensual, the mean, are no more prominent in the Paris he
paints than they are in the real Paris--and that means that they exist
in much the same numerical proportion as in any other metropolis.

Halévy’s life does not lend itself to anecdote, for it lacked stirring
events, yet his every large step marked a specific advance in his work.

On the first day of January, 1834, he was born in Paris, of Hebrew
parents. His father, Léon Halévy, had attained to some distinction as a
poet, and his uncle, Fromental Halévy, was not only director of singing
at the Opera, but a celebrated composer as well. Upon completing his
formal education at the _lycée Louis-le-Grand_, the youth entered the
civil service in the Ministry of State, in six years rose to be _chef
de bureau_ at the Colonial Office, and finally became editor of the
publications of the Legislative Corps. In these public offices he
gained that inside view of official life which is apparent in his works.

Very early Halévy began to know the theatre, for through his uncle’s
influence he was as a youngster of fourteen on the free-list of the
principal theatres of Paris. Scarcely was he a man before he began the
writing of numberless books for operas, burlesques, and dramas, the
materials for which he had been gathering while meeting theatrical
people of all grades. By and by some of these were published, some were
acted, and at length he enjoyed a vogue. In collaboration with Henri
Meilhac he wrote a number of opera books, notably _La Belle Hélène_,
_Blue-Beard_, _The Grand-Duchess of Gerolstein_, _The Brigands_ (all
with music by Offenbach), _Carmen_ (founded on Mérimée’s story), with
music by Bizet, and _The Little Duke_, with music by Lecocq. These
bright operettas and operas are typical of that mocking and practical
spirit of the Second Empire which laughed away the old ideals with a
zest worthy of a nobler occupation. His heavier play, _Frou-Frou_,
though well known about a generation ago, is not so meritorious as his
dramatic skits and sketches.

But Halévy’s work for the stage bore heavily upon his later success,
for when he left the dramatic field to give almost exclusive service to
the novel and shorter fiction, he by no means forgot the training of
the earlier period. Always his understanding of the people of the stage
is apparent. In many a tale these folk appear, and never is the hand
that leads them forward ungentle, even when the words of the introducer
are tinged with irony.

As for form, it is not especially in his plot-structure that we see
traces of Halévy’s training in the drama, for he seldom emphasizes
plot at all. But when he does depart from his favorite sketch form to
attempt the short-story, he still writes simply; and so inevitably do
the incidents succeed one another that there scarcely seems to be even
a plot. Halévy’s early apprenticeship to the drama is most clearly
seen, however, in his precision of outline, clear characterization,
sense of dramatic values, unerring climax, and suppression of needless
details.

Halévy took an active part in the Franco-Prussian War, vivid
impressions of which he has given us in _Notes and Memories_ and _The
Invasion_--volumes which are half chronicle, half story-telling, and
wholly delightful. After the catastrophe of Sedan, his fictional work
dealing with theatrical folk began to appear. _Madame Cardinal_
(1870), _Monsieur Cardinal_ (1871), _The Little Cardinals_ (1880),
and _Criquette_ (1883), are not really novels, but connected
stories and sketches, giving a panorama of people and affairs
theatrical--naturally, not of the loftiest tone. Halévy has drawn
no more vivid characters than the Cardinals, father and mother,
with their comedy anxiety as to the immoralities of their young
ballet-dancing daughters, Pauline and Virginie, whose love affairs
are portrayed with gayety and comical reality. The little Criquette
is an actress who makes her début at the Theatre Porte-Saint-Martin.
About this interesting central figure flit a score of perfect types
of player-folk--clown, provincial manager, ardent young actor, the
demi-mondaine actress, authors, chorus girls, and all the rest.
_Criquette_ is Halévy’s longest tale, and shows the sketch-artist and
_raconteur_ at his best.

But American readers doubtless know Ludovic Halévy most affectionately
by his “Abbé Constantin,” which has gone through more than one hundred
and fifty editions in France, besides numberless printings in other
lands. In its first year of issue, 1882, at least thirty-five editions
were required to meet the demand. It is a novelette in length, and
a simple story in plot. Charming, ingenuous, idyllic, popular with
all classes, it is a refreshing breath from rural France. The large
estate of Longueval, comprising the castle and its dependencies, two
fine farms and a forest, is announced for sale at auction. The Abbé
Constantin, a warm-hearted, genial, self-sacrificing priest, quite
the typical Abbé of romance--“a Curé, neither young, nor gloomy, nor
stern; a Curé with white hair, and looking kind and gentle”--has been
for three decades the village priest. He is disconsolate at the thought
that all his associations must be broken up, and is all the more
distressed when he hears that an American millionaire has bought the
property. Lieutenant Jean Renaud, his godson, the orphaned son of the
Abbé’s old friend, the village doctor, is about to sit down at meat
with the old priest when two ladies arrive--the wife of the millionaire
purchaser of Longueval, Mrs. Scott, and her sister, Miss Bettina
Percival. How these bright and fascinating women win the heart of the
benevolent priest, and adapt themselves to their new surroundings, and
how Lieutenant Jean and Miss Bettina find their happiness, furnish the
incidents for this crystal little romance.

“A Marriage for Love” (1881) is the most popular of Halévy’s longer
short-stories. A young French officer marries a well-bred and ingenuous
girl. Soon each discovers that the other has kept a diary from
childhood. Thinking that the declarations of love which she sees
written in her husband’s journal refer to some other woman, the young
wife cries out, but is consoled by his protests, and it is agreed that
they shall read aloud passages from their own diaries, turn about.
With all the naïveté which it seems the special province of English
eighteenth-century and French nineteenth-century writers to depict,
these young people disclose in this fashion the birth and growth of
their mutual love. A simple story enough, yet refreshing in the midst
of so many Gallic records of marital infidelity.

Of Halévy’s shorter stories several stand out in particular. “Princess”
tells with admirable directness how “the bourgeois heroine ...
contrives to escape the lawyers ... and marry a real prince.” “A Grand
Marriage” is the equally uncomplicated narrative of how the betrothal
of an alert young Parisienne is arranged by her parents, with the
clever and worldly-wise assistance of the prospective bride.

“The Most Beautiful Woman in Paris” is more a study than a story, yet
the firmly wrought, breezy narrative style of the author is here at
its best. The story runs that a social connoisseur, Prince Agénor,
upon seeing at the Opera the wife of a lawyer, pronounces her to be
the most beautiful woman in Paris. Then ensue flattering newspaper
notices, the inflamed ambition of the advertised beauty, costly gowns,
a new coupé--all that madame may appear fittingly at a social function
at which it is announced that she is to appear, as well as the Prince.
Madame does appear, but she is neglected because the Prince forgets
to come to make her acquaintance--he has already found another “most
beautiful woman in Paris.” The author’s narration is lively, as
always, and his social observation confident and minute, while his
characteristic, playful irony is second only to that of another unique
story, “The Chinese Ambassador.”

In this we have as a _motif_ the unsettled political conditions
existing at the close of the Franco-Prussian War. The story is
told with delightful humor, in diary form, by a Chinese Ambassador
Extraordinary who has been sent to France and England with rich
presents to placate the French and English governments, and also to
arrange official reparation, for the massacre of some foreign residents
in China. Then follow a series of confusions. There is no longer an
Emperor in France, there are three rival French Republics, and another
_coup d’état_ seems imminent. So the Ambassador, not knowing whom to
approach, keeps the presents, and waits. Soon he goes to England,
where he meets the Queen. She accepts the apologies as well as the
presents, but in conversation with some French women at a social
function in London he finds that there are three claimants to the
French throne, Napoleon III, the Duke of Orleans, and the Count of
Paris--all in exile--to say nothing of the three rival presidents,
Gambetta, Thiers, and Favre. He is again much in doubt as to which to
approach with his mission, as he receives such contrary advice from all
quarters. Upon his return to Paris, however, he finds the government
has again changed its capitol, and that a seventh government is in
the ascendancy--the Commune. When he learns that Paris is burning, he
concludes that it is “a dead, destroyed, and annihilated city.” In two
weeks, however, order is restored, and the Ambassador decides that it
is still the most beautiful city in Europe, and the most brilliant, for
the Republic of M. Thiers is now undisputed. To him he delivers his
mission.

“The Story of a Ball Dress” is couched in an old form--the ball dress
tells its own story; but we have a kaleidoscopic picture of the change
of affairs before, during, and after the war--that war which plays so
large a part in the writings of both Daudet and Halévy.

“The Insurgent,” first published in 1872, follows, in translation.
It is without doubt Ludovic Halévy’s most intense and dramatic short
narrative, yet none is more simply told. In this expanded anecdote the
writer actually becomes the Insurgent, and so vigorous, so sympathetic,
is the portraiture that every word comes sincerely and naturally
from the soul of the speaker. Halévy does not speak _as_ such a one
would--he _is_ the Insurgent--life, breath, and word. It is a miracle
of compression--not the compression of conscious literary art, but
the tense, naïve, open brevity of one who has no embroideries for his
words, no masks for his sentiment, no apologies for his acts, but goes,
as with the cleavage of an axe, straight to the heart of what he means.
Yet with all of this brusk, speedy simplicity, abrupt, halting and
rudely frank in style, there is a note of poignant pathos at the close
that leaves the eye misty and the heart warm.

In no one of Halévy’s stories do we see so clearly the application of
his robust, sincere literary creed as confessed in his own words:

“We must not write simply for the refined, the blasé, and the
squeamish. We must write for that man who goes there on the street with
his nose in his newspaper and his umbrella under his arm. We must
write for that fat, breathless woman whom I see from my window, as she
climbs painfully into the Odéon omnibus. We must write courageously for
the _bourgeois_, if it were only to try to refine them, to make them
less _bourgeois_. And if I dared, I should say that we must write even
for fools.”




                             THE INSURGENT
                             (_L’INSURGÉ_)

                           By Ludovic Halévy

                   _Done into English by the Editor_


“Prisoner,” said the president of the court-martial, “have you anything
to add in your defense?”

“Yes, my colonel,” responded the accused; “you have given me a little
advocate who has defended me according to his idea. I want to defend
myself according to my own.

“My name is Martin--Louis Joseph; I am fifty-five years old. My father
was a locksmith. He had a little shop in the upper part of the Faubourg
Saint-Martin and did a small business. We just about lived. I learned
to read in _Le National_, which was, I believe, the paper of Monsieur
Thiers.

“The 27th of July, 1830, my father went out early in the morning. That
evening at ten o’clock they brought him back to us dying on a litter.
He had received a bullet in the chest. By his side upon the litter was
his musket.

“‘Take it,’ he said to me; ‘I give it to you, and every time there is
to be an insurrection, be against the government--always! always!
always!’

“An hour afterward he was dead. I went out in the night. At the first
barricade I stopped and offered myself. A man examined me by the light
of a lantern. ‘A child!’ he cried. I was not yet fifteen. I was very
small, quite undersized. I answered: ‘A child, that’s possible; but my
father was killed about two hours ago. He gave me his musket. Teach me
how to use it.’

“Starting with that moment, I became what I have been always, for forty
years: an insurgent! If I fought during the Commune, it was neither
from compulsion nor for the thirty _sous_, it was from taste, from
pleasure, from habit, from routine.

“In 1830, I bore myself rather bravely at the attack on the Louvre.
That gamin who--the first--climbed the iron fence under the bullets
of the Swiss--that was I. I received the medal of July; but the
_bourgeoisie_ gave us a king. Everything had to be done over again. I
joined a secret society, I learned to mould bullets, to make powder. In
short, I completed my education--and I waited.

“I had to wait nearly two years. The 5th of June, 1832, at midday,
before the Madeleine, I began by unhitching one of the horses from
the hearse of General Lamarque. I passed the day shouting, ‘_Vive
Lafayette!_’ and the night in making barricades. The next morning we
were attacked by the soldiers. That afternoon towards four o’clock we
were pocketed, cannonaded, fired upon with grape-shot, crushed, in the
Church of St. Méry. I had a bullet and three bayonet thrusts in my body
when I was picked up by the soldiers on the flag-stones of a little
chapel on the right--the chapel of St. John. I used often to return
to that little chapel--not to pray, I was not brought up in those
ideas--but to see the trace of my blood which is still marked upon the
stones.

“Because of my youth, I got only ten years in prison. I was sent
to Mont-Saint-Michel. That was why I didn’t take any part in the
uprisings of 1834. If I had been free, I should have been fighting in
the Rue Transnonian as I had fought in the Rue St. Méry. Against the
government--always!--always!--always! That was the last word of my
father, that was my gospel, my religion! I called that my catechism in
six words. I got out of prison in 1842 and again I began to wait.

“The revolution of ’48 made itself--without help. The _bourgeoisie_
were stupid and cowardly. They were neither for us nor against us.
The City Guards alone defended themselves. We had a little trouble in
capturing the post of the Château-d’Eau. The evening of the 24th of
February I stayed three or four hours on the Place de l’Hôtel-de-Ville.
The members of the Provisional Government one after another made
speeches to us, said to us that we were ‘heroes,’ ‘noble citizens,’
‘the first people of the world;’ that we had shaken off the yoke of
tyranny. After having regaled us with these fine words, they gave us a
republic which wasn’t any better than the monarchy which we had tumbled
to the ground.

“In June I took up my musket again--but that time things were not
successful. I was arrested, condemned, sent to Cayenne. It seems that
out there I behaved myself well. One day I saved a captain of marines
who was drowning. They thought that very fine. Notice that I would
very cheerfully have shot at that captain--if he had been on one side
of a barricade and I on the other; but a man who is drowning, who is
dying----. In short, I received my pardon. I got back to France in
1852, after the _Coup d’État_. I had missed the insurrection of 1851.

“At Cayenne I had made a friend, a tailor named Bernard. Six months
after my departure for France, Bernard died. I went to see his widow.
She was in destitution. I married her. We had a son in 1854. You will
understand all in good time why I speak of my wife and of my son. Only,
you ought already to suspect that an insurgent who marries the widow of
an insurgent does not have royalist children.

“Under the Empire, nothing was going on. The police held a firm grip.
We were dispersed, disarmed. I worked, I brought up my son in the ideas
that my father had given me. The wait was long--Rochefort, Gambetta,
public reunions; all those things put us in motion again.

“On the first serious occasion I showed myself. I was of that little
band that assaulted the barracks of the firemen of Villette. Only,
there a stupid thing was done. They killed a fireman unnecessarily.
I was taken, thrown into prison; but the government of the Fourth of
September set us free--from which I concluded that we had done quite
right in attacking that barracks and in killing that fireman, even
unnecessarily.

“The siege commenced. At once I was against the government, and for the
Commune. I marched against the Hôtel-de-Ville on the 31st of October
and the 22d of January. I loved revolt for the sake of revolt. An
insurgent, I told you at the start, I am an insurgent. I cannot see a
club without joining it, an insurrection without running after it, a
barricade without bringing my paving-stone to it. That goes with my
blood.

“And then, besides, I wasn’t altogether ignorant, and I said to myself:
‘We only need to succeed some day, clear to the foundations, and then
in our turn we shall be the government and things will go a little
better than with all these lawyers who get behind us during the battle,
and who pass ahead of us after the victory.’

“The 18th of March came, and naturally I was in it. I cried ‘Hurrah
for the military!’ I fraternized with the soldiers. I went to the
Hôtel-de-Ville. I found there a government at work--absolutely as on
the 24th of February.

“Now you tell me that that insurrection was not legitimate. That’s
possible, but I don’t quite see why. I begin to be muddled, I do,
between these insurrections which are a duty and those insurrections
which are a crime! I do not clearly see the difference.

“I fired on the Versailles troops in 1871, as I fired on the Royal
Guards in 1830, and on the City Guards in 1848. After 1830 I received
the medal of July. After 1848, the compliments of Monsieur Lamartine.
This time, I’m going to have transportation or death.

“There are some insurrections that please you. You raise columns to
them, you give their names to streets, you distribute among yourselves
the offices, the promotions, the big salaries; and we others, who made
the revolution, you call us--noble citizens, heroes, a nation of brave
men, etc., etc. It is with such money that we are paid.

“And then, there are some other insurrections that displease you. As
a result of those, you distribute to us exile, transportation, death.
Well, see here: if you hadn’t paid us so many compliments after the
first, perhaps we would not have done the last. If you had not raised
the Column of July at the entrance to our quarter, perhaps we should
not have gone to demolish the Vendôme Column in your quarter. Those two
penny-trumpets were not in harmony. The one had to discord with the
other, and that is what came about.

“Now, I am going to tell you why I threw away my captain’s uniform at
the street corner on the 26th of May, why I was in a blouse when I was
arrested. When I learned that these gentlemen of the Commune, instead
of coming to fire with us upon the barricades, were distributing
thousand-franc notes to themselves at the Hôtel-de-Ville, shaving their
beards, dyeing their hair, and going to hide themselves in caves, I
didn’t wish to keep the shoulder-straps they had given me.

“Besides, they embarrassed me, those shoulder straps. ‘Captain
Martin,’ that was silly. ‘Insurgent Martin,’ quite as it should be.
I wanted to end as I had begun, to die as my father had died, an
insurrectionist in an insurrection, a barricader in a barricade.

“I couldn’t get myself killed. I got taken. I belong to you. Only, I
wish you would do me one favor. I have a son, a child of seventeen, he
is at Cherbourg, on the hulks. He has fought, it is true, and he will
not deny it; but it was I who put the musket in his hand, it was I who
told him that his duty was there. He listened to me. He obeyed me. That
alone is his crime. Do not condemn him too harshly.

“As for me, you have hold of me--do not let me go; that’s the advice
I give you. I’m too old to mend, and, besides, what would you have?
Nothing can change what is: I was born on the wrong side of the
barricade.”




                       ANDRÉ THEURIET, HUMANIST


André Theuriet was evidently in sympathy with the doctrine that those
lands and their dwellers are most happy which have the least history.
Singular as the statement may seem when made of a contemporary French
man of letters who had defeated Zola in a contest for election to the
Academy, it is nevertheless true that the tone of Theuriet’s work
is repose. “The short and simple annals of the poor” he penned with
simplicity and charm, and rarely did the hurly-burly tempt him to fare
among scenes either boisterous or sordid. Yet, he was never squeamish,
but wrote of a real life in a real world. What Alphonse Daudet became
when he occasionally left fevered Paris to lie on the turf at Montauban
and feel in fancy the gentle fanning of the old windmill, that André
Theuriet was by temperament. The bucolic, the gentle, the peaceful--all
met response in his nature and were mirrored in the placid pool of his
fiction.

Theuriet was born at Marly-le-Roi, September, 1833, and spent his
childhood in that lovely province. He got his education at Bar-le-duc,
and at Paris, where he took up the study of law, receiving the
degree of _Licencée en Droit_ at the age of twenty-four. Instead of
practising, however, he entered the Ministry of Finance the same year,
and began the routine of public life--as the intensely private career
of the bureaucrat is called.

At once he began to publish verse, winning a place, the very year
of his appointment to the Ministry of Finance, in the pages of that
distinguished exponent of letters, the _Revue des Deux Mondes_. _In
Memoriam_ was the title of his first success--a romance in verse,
quickly appraised by critics at a value which it still maintains,
and displaying the qualities for which the author’s writings are
appreciated to-day.

We never tire of debating as to whether distinguished men are more the
product of their times, than their era is moulded by its men. Doubtless
something of both views is the ultimate truth. Theuriet, however,
left no profound influence upon his age. During the ten years which
succeeded the publication of _In Memoriam_--1857 to 1867--his work
continued, unaffected by the French revolt, if that is not too strong a
term, against romanticism. This is shown in his first volume of poems,
_The Forest Path_ (_Le Chemin du Bois_), published in 1867, and awarded
the Vitel prize by the Academy. Another ten years, and he received the
coveted place among the Immortals, but the tone of his writings never
changed--his was always a quiet romanticism clothed upon with the
beauty of idealism.

Theuriet’s selection of themes is a happy index to his nature. The one
and the other are clean, uncomplicated by intrigue, and in the main
agreeable. Are there many to-day who will be attracted to this man when
his fiction is called restful and gentle? I do not know, since we are
all so busy and turbulent and--disillusioned. But we ought to be, if we
are not, drawn by thoughts of a melodious rhythm of words portraying
honest emotions, of country life that exhales the “perfume of new hay
and of ripe wheat,” of woodsy ways and forest folk--in a word, thoughts
of a world where, as in _La Bretonne_, the lowliest respond to human
need, and even crime cannot stamp out the image of the beautiful, a
world full of goodness rising out of the ooze of evil.

And so it was country-life--country-life in Lorraine, enriched and
made beautiful by the Loire--that inspired not only his early poems,
but also the numerous novels, plays, sketches, and short-stories which
stand to his credit--and I use the word designedly.

After a notable if not brilliant career as author and journalist,
Theuriet died in Paris, 1897.

Relatively little of Theuriet’s work is known to readers who know not
French, but of this little probably the long short-story, “The Abbé
Daniel,” is the most familiar. It is in the style of Ludovic Halévy’s
“Abbé Constantin,” and of about the same length--a little classic of
“polite rusticity,” of pastoral love, sorrow, loss, and happiness,
limpid in style and artistically balanced in structure.

The plot is simple: Young Daniel loves his beautiful cousin Denise,
but she marries Beauvais, the rough, hearty, typical bourgeois landed
proprietor. A daughter is born--a second Denise--but the mother does
not long survive. Young Daniel has entered the church and become “The
Abbé Daniel.” His simple goodness leads him to adopt an orphaned lad,
whom he cherishes as he would his own. One day the Abbé finds little
Daniel, as he is called, feeding a threshing machine. In terror for the
child’s danger, the Abbé shows his friends what the lad was doing, and
the loss of his own arm is the penalty. He now resigns his parish and
goes to live with the widowed father of the little Denise and assumes
charge of her education, lavishing upon the child the affection he was
forbidden to give to her mother. The children learn to love each other,
but young Daniel goes away to the Crimean War and seems to forget.
Meanwhile, Beauvais plans to marry his daughter Denise to a worthy
young nobody of means, but the loving Abbé sends for his protégé, who
promptly returns on leave, and the end is not difficult to surmise.

All this brief narration is but sketching the frame and omitting the
picture, for who can feel the charm of the simple but never insipid
story when it is bereft of the witchery of Theuriet’s style! It
is worth while knowing at first hand a real French home, with the
farmer-father, the daughter, the young soldier, and the Abbé Daniel.

That there are not many “intense thrills for jaded readers” in
Theuriet’s straightforward work will be further illustrated by a
reading of his novels--_Mademoiselle Guignon_, _Aunt Aurelia_,
_Claudette_, _The Maugars_, _Angela’s Fortune_, and others--with which
we have not here to deal; but it will also be quite evident in the
simplicity of his shorter fiction, which must now be considered.

“An Easter Story” tells of Juanito, an orphan boy of fifteen. Like a
weed on the pavement of Triana, he had grown up. Gipsy blood flowed in
his veins and, like the gipsies, he loved his independence, vagrancy,
and bull-fights. He earned a poor enough living by selling programmes
at the doors of the theatres, but during Holy Week the theatres were
closed, and now Good Friday finds him unhappy--for he has no money
to go to the bull-fight on Easter Sunday! However, he follows the
crowd until, tired and hungry, he lies down in a corner and sleeps.
Two lovers pass. They put into the hand of the pretty youth a piece of
silver, and so when he awakes his problem is solved. But as he starts
down the street he sees a girl crying. He goes to her. It is Chata,
whom he has known since childhood. Her mother is sick, she says, and
the apothecary will not give her medicine because she has no money.
Juanito looks into the girl’s eyes, hesitates a moment, then quickly
puts into her hand the piece of silver. So Juanito did not see the
bull-fight.

On Sunday Chata goes out to find her friend, and they go for a walk.
Coming to a secluded corner, the girl looks into the young man’s eyes
to thank him. But suddenly, moved by the sweetness of his deed, she
throws her arms about his neck and cries, “I love you!”

Human interest--tenderness rather than strength--marks all Theuriet’s
short fictions. “Little Gab” is quite without plot, which means that
its delicacy defies condensed narration. It is a sympathetic sketch of
a small hunchback whose parents are too hard-pressed in their struggle
with poverty to look after the boy. The physician tells Little Gab’s
sister that only the sea air and the baths at Berck can save her
brother’s life. Through the unceasing labors and savings of the sister,
this is at last accomplished, and both are on the heights of joy. The
change is magical, and the lad returns with some prospect of recovery;
but the dense air of the city is too much for Little Gab, and he dies
still thinking of the beautiful sea.

Less tragic, but quite as simple in scheme, is “The Peaches,” which
narrates how Herbelot is teased out of the service of the Ministry
of Finance by being detected carrying home for his wife two peaches
concealed in his hat.

Though its tone is not entirely typical of Theuriet, _La
Bretonne_--which follows, in translation--is probably his most dramatic
story, revealing, as it does, the good that lives in the worst of us.




                              LA BRETONNE
                           By André Theuriet

                   _Done into English by the Editor_


One evening in November, the Eve of Saint Catherine, the iron gate of
the Central Prison of Auberive turned on its hinges and allowed a woman
of about thirty years to pass out. She was clad in a faded woollen
gown, and her head was surmounted by a bonnet of linen that in an odd
fashion framed her face--pallid and puffed by that grayish fat which is
born of prison fare.

She was a prisoner whom they had just liberated. Her fellow-convicts
called her _La Bretonne_. Condemned for infanticide, it was just six
years since the prison van had brought her to _la Centrale_. At length,
after having donned again her street clothes, and drawing from the
registry the stock of money which had been saved for her, she found
herself once more free, with her road-pass viséed for Langres.

The post-cart for Langres had left; so, cowed and awkward, she directed
her way stumblingly toward the principal inn of the place, and in
scarcely a confident voice asked a lodging for the night. The inn was
full, and the landlady, who did not care to harbor “one of those
jail-birds,” advised her to push on as far as the little public-house
situated at the other end of the village.

_La Bretonne_, more awkward and frightened than ever, went on her
way, and knocked at the door of the public-house, which, to speak
precisely, was only a drinking place for laborers. This proprietress
also cast over her a distrustful eye, doubtless scenting a woman from
_la Centrale_, and finally turned her away on the pretense that she did
not keep lodgers. _La Bretonne_ dared not insist, she merely moved away
with her head down, while from the depths of her soul arose a sullen
hate against this world which so repulsed her.

She had no other recourse than to travel to Langres on foot.

In late November night comes quickly. Soon she found herself enveloped
in darkness, on the gray road which stretched between the edges of the
woods, and where the north wind whistled rudely as it drove the heaps
of dead leaves hither and yon.

After six years of sedentary life as a recluse, she no longer knew how
to walk; and the joints of her knees were rickety; her feet, accustomed
to sabots, were tortured in her new shoes. After about a league they
were blistered, and she herself was exhausted. She sat down on a
milestone, shivering and asking herself if she must die of cold and
hunger in this black night, under that icy wind which so chilled her.

Suddenly, in the solitude of the road, over the squalls of wind she
seemed to hear the trailing sounds of a voice in song. She strained
her ears and distinguished the cadence of one of those caressing and
monotonous chants with which one lulls children to sleep. Thereupon,
rising again to her feet, she pressed on in the direction of the voice,
and at the turn of a cross-road she saw a light which reddened through
the branches.

Five minutes later she reached a mud hovel, whose roof, covered with
clods of earth, leaned against the rock, and whose single window had
sent forth that luminous ray. With anxious heart she decided to knock.
The song ceased and a peasant opened the door--a woman of the same
age as _la Bretonne_, but already faded and aged by work. Her bodice,
torn in places, showed a rough and swarthy skin; her red hair escaped
dishevelled from under a little cloth cap; her gray eyes regarded with
amazement this stranger whose figure revealed something of loneliness.

“Well, good evening,” said she, raising higher the lamp which she held
in her hand. “What do you want?”

“I can go no further,” murmured _la Bretonne_ in a voice broken by a
sob. “The town is far, and if you will lodge me for this night, you’ll
render me a service. I have some money, and will pay you for your
trouble.”

“Come in!” replied the other, after a moment of hesitation; then she
continued in a tone more of curiosity than of suspicion, “Why didn’t
you sleep at Auberive?”

“They were not willing to lodge me”--and, lowering her blue eyes, _la
Bretonne_, seized with a scruple, added--“because, you see, I come from
the Central Prison, and that does not give folks confidence.”

“Ah! Come in all the same. I, who never knew anything but poverty--I
fear nothing! I have a conscience against turning a Christian from the
door on a night like this. I’ll go make you a bed by strewing some
heather.”

She proceeded to take from under a shed several bundles of dry
sweet-heather and spread them in a corner before the chimney.

“You live here alone?” timidly asked _la Bretonne_.

“Yes, with my youngster, who is nearly seven years old. I earn our
living by working in the woods.”

“Your man is dead?”

“I never had one,” said _la Fleuriotte_ bruskly. “The poor child hasn’t
any father. As the saying is, ‘to each his sorrow.’ There, your bed
is made, and here are two or three potatoes which are left over from
supper--it’s all I have to offer you.”

She was interrupted by a childish voice coming from a dark closet,
separated from the main room by a board partition.

“Good night!” she repeated. “I must go look up the little one--she’s
crying. Have a good night’s sleep!”

She took the lamp and went to the adjacent closet, leaving _la
Bretonne_ in darkness.

Soon she was stretched upon her bed of heather. After having eaten,
she tried to close her eyes, but sleep would not come. Through the
partition she heard _la Fleuriotte_ talking softly with her baby,
whom the arrival of the stranger had awakened, and who did not wish
to go to sleep again. _La Fleuriotte_ petted her, she embraced her
with caressing words--naïve expressions which strangely stirred _la
Bretonne_.

The outburst of tenderness awakened a confused instinct of motherhood
buried deep in the soul of that girl who had once been condemned for
having stifled her new-born babe. _La Bretonne_ reflected that “if
things had not gone badly” with her, her own child would have been just
as old as this little girl. At that thought, and at the sound of the
childish voice, she shuddered in her inmost soul; something tender and
loving was born in that embittered heart, and she felt an overwhelming
need for tears.

“Come, my pet,” said _la Fleuriotte_, “hurry off to sleep. If you are
good, I’ll take you to-morrow to the fête of Saint Catherine.”

“Saint Catherine’s--that’s the fête for little girls, isn’t it, Mamma?”

“Yes, my own.”

“Is it true, then, that on this day Saint Catherine gives playthings to
the children?”

“Yes--sometimes.”

“Why doesn’t she ever bring anything to our house?”

“We live too far away; and, besides, we are too poor.”

“Then, she brings them only to rich children! Why? I--I’d love to have
some playthings.”

“Ah, well! Some day--if you are quite good--if you go to sleep
nicely--perhaps she will bring you some.”

“All right--I’m going to sleep--so that she’ll bring me some to-morrow.”

Silence. Then regular and gentle breathing. The child had fallen
asleep, and the mother too. Only _la Bretonne_ did not sleep. An
emotion both poignant and tender wrung her heart, and she thought more
fixedly than ever of that little one whom long ago she had stifled.
This lasted until the first gleams of dawn.

At early daylight _la Fleuriotte_ and her child still slept. _La
Bretonne_ furtively glided out of the house, and, walking hastily in
the direction of Auberive, did not pause until she reached the first
houses. Once there, she again passed slowly up the single street,
scanning the signs of the shops. At last one of these seemed to
fix her attention. She rapped upon the window-shutter, and by and
by it was opened. It was a dry-goods shop, but they also had some
children’s playthings--poor shopworn toys--paper dolls, a Noah’s ark,
a sheep-fold. To the great amazement of the shopkeeper, _la Bretonne_
bought them all, paid, and went out.

She was again on the road to _la Fleuriotte’s_ hovel when a hand was
laid heavily on her shoulder. Tremblingly she turned and found herself
facing a corporal of _gensdarmes_. The unhappy woman had forgotten
that convicts were not permitted after their release to remain in the
neighborhood of the prison!

“Instead of loafing here, you should be already at Langres,” said the
corporal severely. “Go along--on your way!”

She sought to explain--her pains were lost! In the twinkling of an
eye a cart was requisitioned, she was put in under the escort of a
_gendarme_, and the driver whipped up his horse.

The cart rumbled joltingly over the frozen road. Poor _la Bretonne_
heart-brokenly clutched the package of playthings in her chilled
fingers.

At a turn of the highway she recognized the cross-path through the
woods. Her heart leaped, and she pleaded with the _gendarme_ to
stop--she had an errand for _la Fleuriotte_, a woman who lived there,
only a couple of steps away. She pleaded with so much earnestness
that the _gendarme_, a good fellow at heart, allowed himself to be
persuaded. They tied the horse to the tree and went up the path.

In front of her door _la Fleuriotte_ was chopping up wood into faggots.
Upon seeing her visitor back again, accompanied by a _gendarme_, she
stood open-mouthed, her arms hanging.

“Chut!” said _la Bretonne_, “is the little one still asleep?”

“Yes, but----”

“Lay these playthings gently on her bed, and tell her that Saint
Catherine sent them. I went back to Auberive to hunt for them, but it
seems that I hadn’t the right to do so, and they are sending me to
Langres.”

“Holy Mother of God!” cried _la Fleuriotte_.

“Pshaw!”

She drew near the bed. Followed always by her guard, _la Bretonne_
spread over the coverlet the dolls, the ark, and the flock of sheep.
Then she kissed the bare arm of the sleeping child, and, turning toward
the _gendarme_, who stood staring:

“Now,” said she, “we can go on.”




                  THÉOPHILE GAUTIER, LOVER OF BEAUTY


While one is reading the tales of Gautier, he feels himself to be in
a playhouse, confronted by a bewildering array of stage-settings,
incredibly correct in detail and grouping, oppressively rich in
appointment, and colorful--always colorful. At times characters are
felt to be subordinated to background, yet these surroundings are
so picturesque--or better, perhaps, so pictorial--that they furnish
contrasts and harmonies which bring out rather than overpower the
people who move amidst this very forest of accessory riches.

An examination of Gautier the man, both temperamentally and as his
life was lived--if, indeed, there can be such a distinction--at once
provides an explanation of this pervading love for setting: he was a
passionate lover of the beautiful, and he was a persistent traveller in
quest of things beautiful to look upon.

To speak of an artist, whether in pigments, marbles, or words, as a
lover of the beautiful will at once suggest to the “practical” reader
a deep-eyed dreamer with soulful, upturned look, devoid of humour, and
affecting a Bunthorne stride. Not so Gautier. Robust of body, almost
coarse of physiognomy, and bubbling with life, he could mix his colors
with humor, tone his admirations with censure, charge his prodigious
memory with endless detail, and train his observation to the minutest
accuracy. There was something sensual as well as sensuous in his mind,
and he was saved from grovelling only by the dominance of that subtle
perception and admiration for the beautiful in _all_ its phases, which
challenges continual comment in any consideration of the man and his
work. Gautier was esthetic without being an esthete, witty yet not a
wit, sentient but not sentimental, sensual though not gross.
