
A second force in Gautier’s life was his orientalism. In this he was
not only conscious of the strain of eastern blood that pulsed through
both body and temperament, but he was, by reason of long application,
constant travel, and the varied opportunities of a critic’s life, a
savant on matters oriental, particularly Pompeian and Egyptian.

Here, again, “The Romance of a Mummy,” a long tale, “One of Cleopatra’s
Nights,” a short tale, and “The Mummy’s Foot,” which follows in
translation, display the savant in his work. The movement of life in
ancient Egypt in the time of the Hebrew bondage, and all that highly
colored, picturesque civilization, afford him the always coveted
background which he valued as much for itself as for its use as a
setting.

In another of his shorter stories, “Arria Marcella,” the savant is
also evident. The familiar but terrible theme of the vampire woman is
set in an idealized reconstruction of Pompeian life; just as that one
perfect short-story from the pen of Gautier, “The Dead Leman” (_La
Morte Amoureuse_), marvellously made to live again the mediæval spirit
in the poignantly pitiful mistress whose end is the heart-break of
selfish passion; and “The Thousand-and-Second Night” evokes anew the
indistinct, subtle, alluring odors of the Arabian Nights.

The three best-known longer tales of Gautier--technically they are
not precisely novels--are _Mademoiselle de Maupin_, a prose-song to
beauty--immoral, daring, and beautiful; _Captain Fracasse_, whose
smash-’em-up, picaroon hero leads us through abundant adventures; and
_Spirite_, a notable contrast to the materialism displayed--almost
flaunted--in his other work. _Spirite_ is a story of fantasy; but it
is more: with a tender delicacy and spiritual subtlety which well may
surprise his public, Gautier presents the contrasting love-lure of
Lavinia d’Audefini, a disembodied woman, and the very real but--here
is the remarkable part--less attractive charms of Mme. d’Ymbercourt, a
red-ripe woman indeed. We are indebted to Gautier for this one story
as a demonstration that, while his tales are mostly as unmoral as
the pigments of his literary palette, he can at will delineate the
ethereal, and in so doing disclose a fine understanding of spiritual
values.




                           THE MUMMY’S FOOT
                         (_LE PIED DE MOMIE_)

                         By Théophile Gautier

                   _Done into English by the Editor_


I had idly entered the shop of one of those curiosity-venders who, in
that Parisian lingo which is so perfectly unintelligible to the rest of
France, are called _marchands de bric-à-brac_.

You have doubtless glanced through the windows into one of those shops
which have become so numerous since it is the mode to buy antique
furniture, and since the pettiest stockbroker thinks he must have his
“mediæval room.”

There is one thing that clings alike to the shop of the old-iron
dealer, the wareroom of the tapestry-maker, the laboratory of the
alchemist, and the studio of the artist: in these mysterious dens
through whose window-shutters filters a furtive twilight, the thing
that is the most manifestly ancient is the dust; there the spider-webs
are more authentic than the gimps, and the old pear-wood furniture is
younger than the mahogany which arrived yesterday from America.

The wareroom of my bric-à-brac dealer was a veritable Capernaum; all
centuries and all countries seemed to have rendezvoused there: an
Etruscan lamp of red clay stood upon a Boule cabinet whose ebony panels
were brilliantly inlaid with filaments of brass; a Louis XV half-lounge
carelessly stretched its fawn-like feet under a massive table of
the reign of Louis XIII, with heavy oaken spirals, and carvings of
intermingled foliage and chimeras.

In one corner glittered the striped cuirass of a damascened suit of
Milanese armor; bisque cupids and nymphs, grotesques from China,
_céladon_ and _craquelé_ vases, Saxon and old Sèvres cups, encumbered
what-nots and corners.

Upon the fluted shelves of several dressers glittered immense plates
from Japan, with designs in red and blue relieved by gilt hatching,
side by side with several Bernard Palissy enamels, showing frogs and
lizards in relief work.

From disembowelled cabinets escaped cascades of Chinese silk lustrous
with silver, billows of brocade, sown with luminous specks by a
slanting sunbeam, while portraits of every epoch, in frames more or
less tarnished, smiled out through their yellow varnish.

The dealer followed me with precaution through the tortuous passage
contrived between the piles of furniture, fending off with his hand the
hazardous swing of my coat-tails, watching my elbows with the uneasy
attention of the antiquary and the usurer.

It was a singular figure, that of the dealer: an immense cranium,
polished like a knee, and surrounded by a meagre aureole of white hair
that brought out all the more vividly the clear salmon tint of the
skin, gave him a false air of patriarchal simplicity--contradicted,
on the other hand, by the sparkling of two little yellow eyes, which
trembled in their orbits like two _louis d’ors_ on a surface of
quicksilver. The curve of the nose presented an aquiline silhouette
which recalled the Oriental or Jewish type. His hands--thin, bony,
veined, full of sinews stretched like the strings on the neck of a
violin, and armed with talons resembling those which terminate the
membranous wings of a bat--shook with a senile movement disquieting
to see. But those feverishly nail-bitten hands became firmer than
lobster-claws or steel pincers when they lifted some precious piece--an
onyx carving, a Venetian cup, or a plate of Bohemian crystal. This old
rascal had an aspect so profoundly rabbinical and cabalistic that three
centuries ago they would have burned him merely from the evidence of
his face.

“Will you not buy something from me to-day, Monsieur? Here is a Malay
kris with a blade undulating like a flame: see those grooves to serve
as gutters for the blood, those teeth fashioned and set inversely so as
to rip out the entrails when the dagger is withdrawn. It is a fine type
of ferocious weapon, and would look very well among your trophies. This
two-handed sword is very beautiful--it is a José de la Hera; and this
_colichemarde_ with perforated guard, what a superb piece of work!”

“No, I have plenty of arms and instruments of carnage. I want a
figurine, something that would do for a paper-weight, for I cannot
endure those stock bronzes which the stationers sell, and which may be
found on any desk.”

The old gnome, foraging among his antiquities, finally arranged
before me several antique bronzes--so called, at least; fragments of
malachite; little Hindu or Chinese idols, a kind of poussah toys made
of jade, showing the incarnation of Brahma or of Vishnu, marvellously
well-suited for the sufficiently ungodlike purpose of holding papers
and letters in place.

I was hesitating between a porcelain dragon all starred with warts,
its jaws adorned with tusks and bristling whiskers, and a highly
abominable little Mexican fetich, representing the god Vitziliputzili
_au naturel_, when I noticed a charming foot which I at first took for
a fragment of an antique Venus.

It had those beautiful tawny and ruddy tints which give to Florentine
bronze that warm and vivacious look so preferable to the grayish
green tone of ordinary bronze, which might be taken for statues
in putrefaction. Satiny lights frisked over its form, rounded and
polished by the loving kisses of twenty centuries; for it seemed to
be a Corinthian bronze, a work of the best era, perhaps a casting by
Lysippus!

“This foot will be the thing for me,” said I to the merchant, who
regarded me with an ironical and saturnine air as he held out the
desired object for me to examine at will.

I was surprised at its lightness; it was not a foot of metal, but
indeed a foot of flesh, an embalmed foot, a foot of a mummy; on
examining it still more closely one could see the grain of the skin,
and the lines almost imperceptibly impressed upon it by the texture
of the bandages. The toes were slender, delicate, terminated by
perfect nails, pure and transparent as agates; the great toe, slightly
separate, and contrasting happily with the modelling of the other
toes, in the antique style, gave it an air of lightness, the grace of
a bird’s foot; the sole, scarcely streaked by several almost invisible
grooves, showed that it had never touched the earth, and had come in
contact with only the finest matting of Nile rushes and the softest
carpets of panther skin.

“Ha, ha! You wish the foot of the Princess Hermonthis!” exclaimed the
merchant, with a strange chuckle, fixing upon me his owlish eyes.
“Ha, ha, ha!--for a paper-weight! Original idea! Artistic idea! If
any one would have said to old Pharaoh that the foot of his adored
daughter would serve for a paper-weight, he would have been greatly
surprised, considering that he had had a mountain of granite hollowed
out to hold the triple coffin, painted and gilded and all covered
with hieroglyphics and beautiful paintings of the Judgment of Souls,”
continued the singular little merchant, half aloud, and as though
talking to himself.

“How much will you charge me for this mummy fragment?”

“Ah, the highest price I am able, for it is a superb piece: if I had
its counterpart, you could not have it for less than five hundred
francs; the daughter of a Pharaoh, nothing is more rare!”

“Assuredly it is not common; but still, how much do you want? In the
first place, let me tell you something, and that is, my entire treasure
consists of only five louis: I can buy anything that costs five louis,
but nothing dearer. You might search my innermost waistcoat pockets,
and my most secret desk-drawers, without finding even one miserable
five-franc piece more.”

“Five louis for the foot of the Princess Hermonthis! That is very
little, very little, in truth, for an authentic foot,” muttered the
merchant, shaking his head and rolling his eyes.

“All right, take it, and I will give you the bandages into the
bargain,” he added, wrapping it in an ancient damask rag. “Very fine:
real damask, Indian damask, which has never been redyed; it is strong,
it is soft,” he mumbled, passing his fingers over the frayed tissue,
from the commercial habit which moved him to praise an object of so
little value that he himself judged it worth only being given away.

He poured the gold pieces into a sort of mediæval alms-purse hanging at
his belt, as he kept on saying:

“The foot of the Princess Hermonthis to serve as a paper-weight!”

Then, turning upon me his phosphorescent eyes, he exclaimed in a voice
strident as the miauling of a cat that has swallowed a fish-bone:

“Old Pharaoh will not be pleased--he loved his daughter, that dear man!”

“You speak as if you were his contemporary; old as you are, you do not
date back to the Pyramids of Egypt,” I answered laughingly from the
shop door.

I went home, well content with my acquisition.

In order to put it to use as soon as possible, I placed the foot of
the divine Princess Hermonthis upon a heap of papers, scribbled over
with verses, an undecipherable mosaic work of erasures; articles just
begun; letters forgotten and mailed in the table-drawer--an error which
often occurs with absent-minded people. The whole effect was charming,
bizarre, and romantic.

Well satisfied with this embellishment, I went down into the street
with the becoming gravity and pride of one who feels that he has
the ineffable advantage over all the passers-by whom he elbows, of
possessing a fragment of the Princess Hermonthis, daughter of Pharaoh.

I looked upon as sovereignly ridiculous all those who did not possess,
like myself, a paper-weight so notoriously Egyptian; and it seemed to
me that the true occupation of every man of sense was to have a mummy’s
foot upon his desk.

Happily, my meeting some friends distracted me from my infatuation with
the recent acquisition; I went to dinner with them, for it would have
been difficult for me to dine by myself.

When I came back in the evening, my brain slightly confused by a few
glasses of wine, a vague whiff of Oriental perfume delicately tickled
my olfactory nerves: the heat of the room had warmed the sodium
carbonate, bitumen, and myrrh in which the paraschites, who cut open
the bodies of the dead, had bathed the corpse of the princess; it was a
perfume both sweet and penetrating, a perfume that four thousand years
had not been able to dissipate.

The dream of Egypt was Eternity: her odors have the solidity of
granite, and endure as long.

I soon drank to fulness from the black cup of sleep: for an hour or two
all remained opaque. Oblivion and nothingness inundated me with their
sombre emptiness.

Presently my mental obscurity cleared; dreams commenced to graze me
softly in their silent flight.

The eyes of my soul were opened, and I beheld my chamber precisely
as it was. I might have believed myself to be awake, but a vague
perception told me that I slept and that something fantastic was about
to take place.

The odor of the myrrh had intensely increased, and I felt a slight
headache, which--with great reasonableness--I attributed to several
glasses of champagne that we had drunk to the unknown gods, and our
future success.

I peered through my room with a feeling of expectation which nothing
actually justified; the furniture was precisely in place; the lamp
burned upon its bracket, softly shaded by the milky whiteness of its
dull crystal; the water-color sketches shone under their Bohemian
glass; the curtains hung languidly: everything had an air slumbrous and
tranquil.

Presently, however, this calm interior appeared to become troubled:
the woodwork cracked furtively, the log enveloped in cinders suddenly
emitted a jet of blue flame, and the circular ornaments on the frieze
seemed like metallic eyes, watching, like myself, for the things which
were about to happen.

My gaze by chance fell upon the desk where I had placed the foot of the
Princess Hermonthis.

Instead of being immobile, as became a foot which had been embalmed for
four thousand years, it moved uneasily, contracted itself and leaped
over the papers like a frightened frog: one would have imagined it to
be in contact with a galvanic battery. I could quite distinctly hear
the dry sound made by its little heel, hard as the hoof of a gazelle.

I became somewhat discontented with my acquisition, preferring my
paper-weights to be sedentary, and thought it a little unnatural that
feet should walk about without legs; indeed, I commenced to feel
something which strongly resembled fear.

Suddenly I saw the folds of one of my bed-curtains stir, and I heard
a bumping sound, like that of a person hopping on one foot. I must
confess I became alternately hot and cold, that I felt a strange
wind blow across my back, and that my suddenly rising hair caused my
nightcap to execute a leap of several yards.

The bed-curtains parted, and I beheld coming towards me the strangest
figure it is possible to imagine.

It was a young girl, of a deep _café-au-lait_ complexion, like the
bayadere[1] Amani, of a perfect beauty, and recalling the purest
Egyptian type. She had almond eyes with the corners raised, and brows
so black that they seemed blue; her nose was delicately chiselled,
almost Grecian in its fineness of outline, and indeed she might have
been taken for a statue of Corinthian bronze had not the prominence of
the cheekbones and the slightly African lips made it impossible not to
recognize her as belonging beyond doubt to the hieroglyphic race of the
banks of the Nile.

Her arms, slender and turned with the symmetry of a spindle--like
those of very young girls--were encircled by a kind of metal bands
and bracelets of glass beads; her hair was plaited in cords; and upon
her bosom was suspended a little idol of green paste, which, from its
bearing a whip with seven lashes, enabled one to recognize it as an
image of Isis, conductress of spirits. A disk of gold scintillated upon
her brow, and a few traces of rouge relieved the coppery tint of her
cheeks.


As for her costume, it was very strange. Imagine an under-wrapping of
linen strips, bedizened with black and red hieroglyphics, stiffened
with bitumen, and apparently belonging to a freshly unbandaged mummy.

In one of those flights of thought so frequent in dreams, I heard
the rough falsetto of the bric-à-brac dealer, which repeated like
a monotonous refrain the phrase he had uttered in his shop with an
intonation so enigmatical:

“Old Pharaoh will not be pleased--he loved his daughter, that dear man!”

Strange circumstance--and one which scarcely reassured me--the
apparition had but one foot; the other was broken off at the ankle!

She approached the desk where the foot was moving and wriggling with
redoubled liveliness. Once there, she supported herself upon the edge,
and I saw tears form and grow pearly in her eyes.

Although she had not as yet spoken, I clearly discerned her thoughts:
she looked at her foot--for it was indeed her own--with an infinitely
graceful expression of coquettish sadness; but the foot leaped and
coursed hither and yon, as though driven by steel springs.

Two or three times she extended her hand to seize it, but she did not
succeed.

Then commenced between the Princess Hermonthis and her foot--which
appeared to be endowed with a life of its own--a very fantastic
dialogue in a most ancient Coptic dialect, such as might have been
spoken some thirty centuries ago by voices of the land of Ser: luckily,
that night I understood Coptic to perfection.

The Princess Hermonthis cried, in a voice sweet and vibrant as a
crystal bell:

“Well, my dear little foot, you flee from me always, though I have
taken good care of you. I bathed you with perfumed water in a basin of
alabaster; I smoothed your heel with pumice-stone mixed with oil of
palms; your nails were cut with golden scissors and polished with a
hippopotamus tooth; I was careful to select sandals for you, broidered
and painted and turned up at the toes, which made all the young girls
in Egypt envious; you wore on your great toe rings representing the
sacred Scarabæus, and you carried about the lightest body it was
possible for a lazy foot to sustain.”

The foot replied, in a tone pouting and chagrined:

“You well know that I do not belong to myself any longer. I have been
bought and paid for. The old merchant knew perfectly what he was doing;
he always bore you a grudge for having refused to espouse him: this
is an ill turn which he has done you. The Arab who robbed your royal
sarcophagus in the subterranean pits of the necropolis of Thebes was
sent by him: he desired to prevent you from going to the reunion of the
shadowy peoples in the cities below. Have you five pieces of gold for
my ransom?”

“Alas, no! My jewels, my rings, my purses of gold and silver, were all
stolen from me,” answered the Princess Hermonthis, with a sigh.

“Princess,” I then exclaimed, “I never retained anybody’s foot
unjustly; even though you have not got the five louis which it cost me,
I give it to you gladly: I should be in despair to make so amiable a
person as the Princess Hermonthis lame.”

I delivered this discourse in a tone so royal and gallant that it must
have astonished the beautiful Egyptian.

She turned toward me a look charged with gratitude, and her eyes shone
with bluish gleams.

She took her foot--which, this time, let itself be taken--like a woman
about to put on her little shoe, and adjusted it to her leg with much
address.

This operation ended, she took two or three steps about the room, as if
to assure herself that she really was no longer lame.

“Ah, how happy my father will be--he who was so desolated because of my
mutilation, and who had, from the day of my birth, put a whole people
at work to hollow out for me a tomb so deep that he would be able to
preserve me intact until that supreme day when souls must be weighed in
the balances of Amenthi! Come with me to my father--he will receive you
well, for you have given me back my foot.”

I found this proposition natural enough. I enveloped myself in
a dressing-gown of large flowered pattern, which gave me a very
Pharaohesque appearance, hurriedly put on a pair of Turkish slippers,
and told the Princess Hermonthis that I was ready to follow her.

Hermonthis, before starting, took from her neck the tiny figurine of
green paste and laid it on the scattered sheets of paper which covered
the table.

“It is only fair,” she said smilingly, “that I should replace your
paper-weight.”

She gave me her hand, which was soft and cold, like the skin of a
serpent, and we departed.

For some time we spun with the rapidity of an arrow through a fluid and
grayish medium, in which faintly outlined silhouettes were passing to
right and left.

For an instant, we saw only sea and sky.

Some moments afterward, obelisks commenced to rise, porches and flights
of steps guarded by sphinxes were outlined against the horizon.

We had arrived.

The princess conducted me toward the mountain of rosy granite, where we
found an opening so narrow and low that it would have been difficult to
distinguish it from the fissures in the rock, if two sculptured columns
had not enabled us to recognize it.

Hermonthis lighted a torch and walked before me.

There were corridors hewn through the living rock; the walls, covered
with hieroglyphic paintings and allegorical processions, might
well have occupied thousands of arms for thousands of years; these
corridors, of an interminable length, ended in square chambers, in the
midst of which pits had been contrived, through which we descended by
means of cramp-hooks or spiral stairways; these pits conducted us into
other chambers, from which other corridors opened, equally decorated
with painted sparrow-hawks, serpents coiled in circles, and those
mystic symbols, the _tau_, the _pedum_, and the _bari_--prodigious
works which no living eye would ever examine, endless legends in
granite which only the dead have time to read throughout eternity.

At last we issued into a hall so vast, so enormous, so immeasurable,
that the eye could not perceive its confines. Flooding the sight were
files of monstrous columns between which twinkled livid stars of yellow
flame, and these points of light revealed further incalculable depths.

The Princess Hermonthis always held me by the hand, and graciously
saluted the mummies of her acquaintance.

My eyes accustomed themselves to the crepuscular light, and objects
became discernible.

I beheld, seated upon their thrones, the kings of the subterranean
races: they were magnificent, dry old men, withered, wrinkled,
parchmented, blackened with naphtha and bitumen--all wearing golden
headdresses, breast-plates, and gorgets starry with precious stones,
eyes of a sphinx-like fixity, and long beards whitened by the snows of
the centuries. Behind them, their embalmed people stood, in the rigid
and constrained pose of Egyptian art, preserving eternally the attitude
prescribed by the hieratic code. Behind these peoples, contemporary
cats mewed, ibises flapped their wings, and crocodiles grinned, all
rendered still more monstrous by their swathing bands.

All the Pharaohs were there--Cheops, Chephrenes, Psammetichus,
Sesostris, Amenotaph--all the dark rulers of the pyramids and the
nymphs. On the yet higher thrones sat King Chronos, Xixouthros, who was
contemporary with the deluge, and Tubal Cain, who preceded it.

The beard of King Xixouthros had grown so full that it already wound
seven times around the granite table upon which he leaned, lost in a
somnolent revery.

Further back, through a dusty cloud across the dim centuries, I beheld
vaguely the seventy-two preadamite Kings, with their seventy-two
peoples, forever passed away.

After allowing me to gaze upon this astounding spectacle a few moments,
the Princess Hermonthis presented me to Pharaoh, her father, who
vouchsafed me a majestic nod.

“I have recovered my foot again! I have recovered my foot!” cried the
Princess, as she clapped her little hands one against the other with
all the signs of playful joy. “Here is the gentleman who restored it to
me.”

The races of Kemi, the races of Nahasi, all the black, bronze, and
copper-colored nations, repeated in chorus:

“The Princess Hermonthis has recovered her foot!”

Even Xixouthros was visibly affected: he raised his dull eyelids,
passed his fingers over his mustache, and bent upon me his look weighty
with centuries.

“By Oms, the dog of Hell, and by Tmei, daughter of the Sun and of
Truth, there is a brave and worthy fellow!” exclaimed Pharaoh,
extending toward me his sceptre, terminated with a lotus-flower. “What
do you desire for recompense?”

Strong in that audacity which is inspired by dreams, where nothing
seems impossible, I asked the hand of Hermonthis: the hand seemed to me
a very proper antithetic recompense for such a good foot.

Pharaoh opened wide his eyes of glass, astonished by my pleasantry and
my request.

“From what country do you come, and what is your age?”

“I am a Frenchman, and I am twenty-seven years old, venerable Pharaoh.”

“Twenty-seven years old--and he wishes to espouse the Princess
Hermonthis, who is thirty centuries old!” exclaimed at once all the
thrones and all the circles of nations.

Hermonthis alone did not seem to find my request unreasonable.

“If only you were even two thousand years old,” replied the ancient
King, “I would quite willingly give you the Princess; but the
disproportion is too great; and, besides, we must give our daughters
husbands who are durable--you no longer know how to preserve
yourselves: the oldest people that you can produce are scarcely fifteen
hundred years old, and they are no more than a pinch of dust. See
here--my flesh is hard as basalt, my bones are bars of steel!

“I shall be present on the last day of the world with the body and the
features which were mine in life; my daughter Hermonthis will endure
longer than a statue of bronze.

“Then the winds will have dispersed the last particles of your dust,
and Isis herself, who was able to recover the atoms of Osiris, would be
embarrassed to recompose your being.

“See how vigorous I still am, and how well my hands can grip,” he said
to me as he shook my hand _à l’Anglaise_, in a manner that cut my
fingers with my rings.

He squeezed me so hard that I awoke, and found it was my friend Alfred
who was shaking me by the arm to make me get up.

“Ah, you maddening sleepyhead! Must I have you carried out into the
middle of the street, and fireworks exploded in your ears? It’s
afternoon; don’t you remember that you promised to take me with you to
see M. Aguado’s Spanish pictures?”

“_Mon Dieu!_ I didn’t remember it any more!” I answered as I dressed
myself. “We will go there at once; I have the permit here on my desk.”

I went forward to take it; but judge of my astonishment when instead
of the mummy’s foot I had purchased the evening before, I saw the tiny
figurine of green paste left in its place by the Princess Hermonthis!


                              FOOTNOTES:

[1] An East-Indian dancing girl.




                  ANATOLE FRANCE, FORMER MAN AND NEW


The biographies of some great men of letters are little different from
their bibliographies. For many years this would seem to have been true
in the case of Anatole France, for the man of public import--apart from
his literary productions--came not into being until fifty-three years
after his physical birth.

Every book-lover who goes to Paris must visit the banks of the Seine
and revel among the riches of that vast exhibition of old books, art
objects, rare prints, and fascinating what-not, which for generations
have been the despair and the admiration of collectors. Over an
old-book mart on the Quai Malaquis, Jacques Anatole Thibault--now
everywhere known as Anatole France--was born April 16, 1844. From that
day to this he has never left as a residence that Paris whose every
paving-block he knows, as he himself says, and whose every stone he
loves. Year by year he has increasingly stood as a type of Parisian
literary life and thought.

His father was one of the prosperous booksellers of the Seine
banks--meditative, thoughtful, and even a maker of verses. He brought
with him from Anjou in western France all of the Vendéean’s passion
for monarchism and clericalism. Just how this harmonizes with the
assertion of one of our author’s biographers that the elder Thibault
was of Jewish blood, I do not pretend to say, but the statement may
pass on its face value. Certain it is that the father was concerned
that Anatole should be educated under the auspices of clerical
teachers, the priests of the old Collège Stanislas, and his son’s
early mastery of the classics and attainments in literary style amply
justified the choice. Indeed, the clerical schools of the period did
more to establish French letters than has since proven to be the case
under the public schools of present-day France.

Growing up in this bookish atmosphere, rich tokens of the past all
about him, inheriting his father’s scholarly tastes, trained under
the rigid system of classicists, and in the school that developed
Paul Bourget and François Coppée, Anatole France needed only one more
element to bring out in him the varied temperament his life and works
exhibit--the inspiration of the refined and tender mother whose love
for romantic fairy-tales charmed into being the first fancy-creations
of her gifted boy.

In 1868 M. France produced his first book--a study of Alfred de Vigny.
This made no great sensation, but his first volume of poems--many
French literary men, like Daudet, Maupassant, and Bourget, have opened
their literary careers with essays at verse--was published in 1873,
_Les Poèmes dorés_.

About this time M. France became reader for the publisher Lemerre,
and under his auspices brought out various of the thirty-some volumes
which stand to his credit. In 1876 he became an attaché of the Senate
library. Later, he was known as a regular contributor to _Le Temps_
and other Parisian journals, much of this review material being now
accessible in book-form.

That part of M. France’s work which covers the first twenty years of
his writing, ending with 1896, has largely fixed his place in the
average opinion, for two reasons: those years witnessed his largest
and most popular production, including nearly all of his novels and
stories; and, in consequence, the preponderance of published critical
estimates cover only those two decades.

The “first” Anatole France, then, must be considered almost as a
separate being, so far as we regard his spirit; his literary style,
however, changed scarcely at all with time. Classical training was
reflected in a passion for the Greek magic of words, Latin harmony
of phrasing, and the hedonistic philosophy; there was not even the
suggestion of his later direct appeal to reason and “the rights of
man.” His personal tone--for much of his writing is personal and even
autobiographical--was pessimistic, though untinged with bitterness;
and here again there was little to forecast his vigorous appeal for
a social better day. No thought of social uplift, no ray of hope,
appeared in his treatment of _Thaïs_, a study of the Egypt of the
Ptolemies; _The Red Lily_, a picture of present-day Florence; _The
Opinions of M. Jérome Coignard_, the modernization of sentiments
exploited in Rabelais, “Wilhelm Meister,” “Gil Blas,” and Montaigne;
_The Garden of Epicurus_, wherein the shades of great thinkers, from
Plato to Schopenhauer, hold converse, “while an Esquimaux refutes
Bossuet, a Polynesian develops his theory of the soul, and Cicero and
Cousin agree in their estimate of a future life.” In a word, the M.
France of those days viewed life as a spectacle, with dispassionate
yet pitying irony. Convinced, with the Preacher, that all is vanity,
this dilettante proposed no remedies for its ills, and was even frankly
skeptical that any such saving medicine existed. This is Anatole France
as most readers know him--the Anatole France who “died” fifteen years
ago, leaving only the stylist and the keen observer to identify him
with the decidedly living man of to-day.

Two important events in the life of our author took place respectively
in 1896 and 1897. In the former year he was elected on the first
ballot to a seat in the French Academy--the seat occupied by Ferdinand
de Lesseps, and on the occasion of his _séance de réception_ M.
France delivered a tactful and altogether admirable eulogy upon the
unfortunate genius whom he succeeded.

This distinction coming after more than fifty years of life would have
been enough to mark an epoch in his career, but one year later he
issued _L’Orme du Mail_, a series of notable comments upon contemporary
literary and social life. This may be regarded as the outgrowth of the
social, political, and literary notes which he had been contributing
to the newspapers, and which have been gathered in several volumes,
forming probably the most brilliant commentary upon things French which
is available to-day.

Doubtless this daily observation of the current trend gave birth to a
new man, for now Anatole France is no longer the satirical and lightly
ironical dilettante making excursions into the field of speculation,
but a robust devotee of the rights of the people. His powerful
arraignments of the social and political condition of the French
common-people are not the only proofs of a new birth in M. France.
Trenchant, witty, and apostolic as are his social sermons--for now and
then a sermon may ring true to its word-origin and be _a thrust_--they
were not so amazing and, happily, not so significant, as his brave
championship of the cause of Captain Dreyfus when there were few who
dared to lift voice against rampant militarism and a prejudiced,
Jew-baiting military tribunal.

From this courageous stand it was only a single step to a propagandum
to abolish the many abuses which he feels weigh heavily upon the
masses--war, plutocracy, clericalism, militarism. I have said that
it was only a single step, yet it represents a long journey for the
son of a monarchist, a boy educated by priests, the smiling literary
experimenter, the speculative pupil of Rénan, to have mounted the
Socialistic rostrum and produced anti-military and anti-clerical
papers of no doubtful sound. Such is M. France to-day; and though he
still fails not in his literary appeal to the intellectuals, the cry
that deeply stirs his being is that of the proletariat in need of
intelligent, vigorous leadership. Whether or not one agrees with his
propagandum, one cannot ignore its significance.

Anatole France has attained distinction in several literary forms. His
early poems are not of sufficient merit to make him famous, but they
consist of a piquant combination--humor, history, and philosophy.
His critical introductions to delightful editions of famous books
are charmingly done and sufficiently discriminating. His tractates
on questions of the times are earnest, direct, and vigorous. But
it is to his novels and stories that we must look to find his most
characteristic writings.

To the English reader, his best-known novel is _The Crime of Sylvestre
Bonnard_ (1881), which was crowned by the Academy. Like all of M.
France’s novels, it is practically plotless--a fictional framework
for the skeptical observations and good-natured ironies of the old
philosopher, whose name gives the book its title. A second novel of
distinction, if novel it may be called, is _The Book of Friendship_
(_le Livre de Mon Ami_). It is made up of two parts--_The Book of
Peter_ and _The Book of Suzanne_. The former owes its interest not
alone to charm of style, childlikeness of recital, and subtle beauty,
but also to its autobiographical character--which M. France has frankly
admitted. Three other works immediately rise up for comparison when
one reads this keen, sympathetic, and understanding story--Dickens’s
_David Copperfield_, Daudet’s _Little What’s-His-Name_ (_le Petit
Chose_), and Loti’s _The Story of a Child_; and the very fact of such
inevitable comparisons may sufficiently suggest its ingenuous charm,
its pseudo-naïvete, and its mingled humor and pathos. No Frenchman,
except Victor Hugo, quite entered into child-life as did M. France in
this notable compound of fiction and fact, and I am not forgetting
either Alphonse Daudet or Gustav Droz in making this assertion.

The inheritance of his mother’s love for fantasy is beautifully
illustrated in M. France’s _Abeille_, a fairy story of perhaps
twenty-thousand words. The author’s name will vouch for its style;
the simple outline will show the pretty framework for the fictional
conception.

La Duchesse des Clarides brings up her daughter Abeille, together with
Georges, the only son of la Comtesse Blanchelande, who at her death had
confided him to the care of her friend.

The two children one day set out secretly to find the distant lake
which they have seen from the high tower of the castle of Clarides. The
lake is the home of the Ondines, and the woods surrounding it the realm
of the Gnomes. Georges, seeking water and food for Abeille, is seized
by the Ondines. Abeille, waiting for Georges’ return, falls asleep, to
be wakened by the Gnomes, who carry her to their King Loc. They keep
Abeille in order to teach her the wisdom and secrets of their race and
they make her their Princess. Loc loves Abeille and offers her all
the treasures of his kingdom if she will become his wife. She refuses,
asking only to be sent back to her mother, whom she is allowed to see
each night in a dream, as her mother also sees her. Loc finally learns
that Abeille loves Georges, but that he has disappeared. The Gnome king
discovers that the youth is with the Ondines, held prisoner because he
wishes to leave the Ondine queen--who also loves him--in order to seek
Abeille. Loc magnanimously rescues Georges and sends him to Clarides,
but still cannot bring himself to free Abeille. The youth learns of the
fate of Abeille from his mother and his serving man, and goes to the
Gnome kingdom to rescue her.

Loc cannot keep Abeille longer because of a law allowing mortals,
prisoners of the Gnomes, to return to the world after seven years, so
he betroths Georges and Abeille and gives them rich gifts, among which
is a magic ring having power to bring Abeille and Georges at any time
to visit the Gnome realm, where they will be always welcome.

In the volumes, _Mother-of-Pearl_ (_L’Etui de Nacre_) and _St. Clara’s
Well_ (_Le Puits de Sainte-Claire_), we find our author’s best
short-story work.

As has been noted in previous introductory papers of this series,
there is a marked tendency among French writers of little fictions
to affect the sketch form, and in this field they have wrought with
great delicacy and spirit. It is hardly to be expected of a writer
whose novels give so much play to epigram, philosophy, dialogue, and
witty comment, that he should seek to tell his shorter stories with the
compression of a Maupassant and the plot-structure of a Mérimée. But
other qualities of the first-rate story-teller he does display--his
narration is lively and witty, and his climaxes are satisfying.

Only two of his short-stories can be given attention in this limited
space, both found in the first-named volume, and one of them reproduced
here in translation.

“The Procurator of Judea” tells in the author’s leisurely, pellucid
style how L. Ælius Lamia, after eighteen years of exile by Tiberius
Cæsar, returns to Rome. During his years of sojourn in Asia, here and
there, he has met Pontius Pilate. Now they meet again, and the physical
bulk of the story is taken up by their reminiscences. Just when that
seems to be all, they fall to discussing the charms of Judæan women,
when Lamia recalls with especial warmth a dancing girl.

“‘Some months after,’” he goes on, “‘I lost sight of her. I learned by
chance that she had attached herself to a small company of men and
women who were followers of a young Galilean thaumaturgist. His name
was Jesus; he came from Nazareth, and he was crucified for some crime,
I don’t know what. Pontius, do you remember anything about the man?’

“Pontius Pilate contracted his brows, and his hand rose to his forehead
in the attitude of one who probes the deeps of memory. Then after a
silence of some seconds--

“‘Jesus?’ he murmured. ‘Jesus of Nazareth? I cannot call him to mind.’”

This dramatic episode, which exists only for its climax, is no more
poignant than the pathos of that simple-hearted juggler-monk who
imitated the Widow, in that he gave all that he had.




                          JUGGLER TO OUR-LADY
                     (_LE JONGLEUR DE NOTRE-DAME_)

                           By Anatole France

                   _Done into English by the Editor_


                                  I.

In the time of King Louis, there lived in France a poor juggler, native
of Compiègne, named Barnabas, who went among the villages doing feats
of strength and skill. On market days he would spread out on the public
square an old carpet very much worn, and, after having attracted the
children and the gazing bumpkins by some suitable pleasantries which he
had adopted from an old juggler and which he never changed at all, he
would assume grotesque attitudes and balance a plate on his nose.

The crowd at first looked at him with indifference. But when, standing
on his hands with his head downward, he tossed in the air six copper
balls which glittered in the sun, and caught them again with his feet;
or when, by bending backward until his neck touched his heels, he gave
his body the form of a perfect wheel, and in that posture juggled with
twelve knives, a murmur of admiration rose from the onlookers, and
pieces of money rained upon the carpet.

However, like the majority of those who live by their talents, Barnabas
of Compiègne had much difficulty in living. Earning his bread by
the sweat of his brow, he bore more than his part of the miseries
connected with the fall of Adam, our father. Moreover, he was unable
to work as much as he would have wished. In order to show off his fine
accomplishment, he needed the warmth of the sun and the light of day,
just as do the trees in order to produce their blossoms and fruits.

In winter he was nothing more than a tree despoiled of its foliage
and to appearance dead. The frozen earth was hard for the juggler.
And, like the grasshopper of which Marie of France tells, he suffered
from cold and from hunger in the bad season. But, since he possessed a
simple heart, he bore his ills in patience.

He had never reflected upon the origin of riches, nor upon the
inequality of human conditions. He believed firmly that, if this world
is evil, the other cannot fail to be good, and this hope sustained him.
He did not imitate the thieving mountebanks and miscreants who have
sold their souls to the devil. He never blasphemed the name of God; he
lived honestly, and, although he had no wife, he did not covet his
neighbor’s, for woman is the enemy of strong men, as appears from the
history of Samson, which is reported in the Scriptures.

In truth, he had not a spirit which turned to carnal desires, and it
would have cost him more to renounce the jugs than the women. For,
although without failing in sobriety, he loved to drink when it was
warm. He was a good man, fearing God and very devout toward the Holy
Virgin. He never failed, when he entered a church, to kneel before the
image of the Mother of God and address to her this prayer:

“Madame, take care of my life until it may please God that I die, and
when I am dead, cause me to have the joys of paradise.”


                                  II.

Well, then, on a certain evening after a day of rain, while he was
walking, sad and bent, carrying under his arm his balls and knives
wrapped up in his old carpet, and seeking for some barn in which he
might lie down supperless, he saw on the road a monk who was travelling
the same way, and saluted him decorously. As they were walking at an
equal pace, they began to exchange remarks.

“Comrade,” said the monk, “how comes it that you are habited all in
green? Is it not for the purpose of taking the character of a fool in
some mystery-play?”

“Not for that purpose, father,” responded Barnabas. “Such as you see
me, I am named Barnabas, and I am by calling a juggler. It would be the
most beautiful occupation in the world if one could eat every day.”

“Friend Barnabas,” replied the monk, “take care what you say. There
is no more beautiful calling than the monastic state. Therein one
celebrates the praises of God, the Virgin, and the saints, and the life
of a monk is a perpetual canticle to the Lord.”

Barnabas answered:

“Father, I confess that I have spoken like an ignoramus. Your calling
may not be compared with mine, and, although there is some merit in
dancing while holding on the tip of the nose a coin balanced on a
stick, this merit does not approach yours. I should like very well to
sing every day, as you do, Father, the office of the most Holy Virgin,
to whom I have vowed a particular devotion. I would right willingly
renounce my calling, in which I am known from Soissons to Beauvais,
in more than six hundred towns and villages, in order to embrace the
monastic life.”

The monk was touched by the simplicity of the juggler, and, as he did
not lack discernment, he recognized in Barnabas one of those men of
good purpose whereof our Lord said: “Let peace abide with them on
earth!” This is why he replied to him:

“Friend Barnabas, come with me, and I will enable you to enter the
monastery of which I am the prior. He who conducted Mary the Egyptian
through the desert has placed me on your path to lead you in the way of
salvation.”

This is how Barnabas became a monk.

In the monastery where he was received, the brethren emulously
solemnized the cult of the Holy Virgin, and each one employed in her
service all the knowledge and all the ability which God had given him.

The prior, for his part, composed books which, according to the rules
of scholasticism, treated of the virtues of the Mother of God.

Friar Maurice with a learned hand copied these dissertations on leaves
of vellum.

Friar Alexander painted fine miniatures, wherein one could see the
Queen of Heaven seated upon the throne of Solomon, at the foot of
which four lions kept vigil. Around her haloed head fluttered seven
doves, which are the seven gifts of the Holy Spirit: gifts of fear,
piety, science, might, counsel, intelligence, and wisdom. She had for
companions six golden-haired Virgins: Humility, Prudence, Retirement,
Respect, Virginity, and Obedience. At her feet two small figures, nude
and quite white, were standing in a suppliant attitude. They were souls
who implored her all-powerful intercession for their salvation--and
certainly not in vain.

On another page Friar Alexander represented Eve gazing upon Mary, so
that thus one might see at the same time the sin and the redemption,
the woman humiliated and the Virgin exalted. Furthermore, in this book
one might admire the Well of Living Waters, the Fountain, the Lily,
the Moon, the Sun, and the closed Garden which is spoken of in the
Canticle, the Gate of Heaven and the Seat of God, and there were also
several images of the Virgin.

Friar Marbode was, similarly, one of the most affectionate children of
Mary. He carved images in stone without ceasing, so that his beard,
his eyebrows, and his hair were white with dust, and his eyes were
perpetually swollen and tearful; but he was full of strength and joy in
his advanced age, and, visibly, the Queen of Paradise protected the old
age of her child. Marbode represented her seated on a bishop’s throne,
her brow encircled by a nimbus whose orb was of pearls, and he took
pains that the folds of her robe should cover the feet of one of whom
the prophet said: “My beloved is like a closed garden.”

At times, also, he gave her the features of a child full of grace, and
she seemed to say: “Lord, thou art my Lord!”--“_Dixi de ventre matris
meæ: Deus meus es tu._” (Psalm 21, 11.)

They had also in the monastery several poets, who composed, in Latin,
both prose and hymns in honor of the most happy Virgin Mary, and there
was even found one Picardian who set forth the miracles of Our-Lady in
ordinary language and in rhymed verses.


                                 III.

Seeing such a concourse of praises and such a beautiful in-gathering of
works, Barnabas lamented to himself his ignorance and his simplicity.

“Alas!” he sighed as he walked along in the little garden of the
convent, “I am very unfortunate not to be able, like my brothers, to
praise worthily the Holy Mother of God to whom I have pledged the
tenderness of my heart. Alas! Alas! I am a rude and artless man, and I
have for your service, Madam the Virgin, neither edifying sermons, nor
tracts properly divided according to the rules, nor fine paintings, nor
statues exactly sculptured, nor verses counted by feet and marching in
measure. I have nothing, alas!”

He moaned in this manner and abandoned himself to sadness.

One night that the monks were recreating by conversing, he heard one
of them relate the history of a religious who did not know how to
recite anything but the _Ave Maria_. This monk was disdained for his
ignorance; but, having died, there came forth from his lips five roses
in honor of the five letters in the name of _Maria_, and his sanctity
was thus manifested.

While listening to this recital Barnabas admired once again the bounty
of the Virgin; but he was not consoled by the example of that happy
death, for his heart was full of zeal, and he desired to serve the
glory of his Lady who was in Heaven. He sought the means without being
able to find them, and every day he grieved the more.

One morning, however, having awakened full of joy, he ran to the chapel
and stayed there alone for more than an hour. He returned there after
dinner. And beginning from that moment he went every day into the
chapel at the hour when it was deserted, and there he passed a large
part of the time which the other monks consecrated to the liberal and
the mechanical arts. No more was he sad and no longer did he complain.

A conduct so singular aroused the curiosity of the monks. They asked
themselves in the community why Friar Barnabas made his retreats so
frequent.

The Prior, whose duty it is to ignore nothing in the conduct of his
monks, resolved to observe Barnabas during his solitudes. One day
that he was closeted in the chapel as his custom was, Dom Prior went,
accompanied by two elders of the monastery, to observe through the
windows of the door what was going on in the interior.

They saw Barnabas, who--before the altar of the Holy Virgin, head
downward, feet in air--was juggling with six brass balls and twelve
knives. He was doing in honor of the Holy Mother of God the feats which
had brought to him the most applause. Not comprehending that this
simple man was thus placing his talent and his knowledge at the service
of the Holy Virgin, the two elders cried out at the sacrilege.

The Prior understood that Barnabas had an innocent heart; but he
thought that he had fallen into dementia. All three were preparing
to drag him vigorously from the chapel when they saw the Holy Virgin
descend the steps of the altar in order to wipe with a fold of her blue
mantle the sweat which burst from the brow of her juggler.

Then the Prior, prostrating his face against the marble slabs, recited
these words:

“Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God!”

“Amen,” responded the elders as they kissed the earth.


