
The Governor's mansion, a century old edifice typifying the moribund
tendency to confuse dignity with discomfort, was teeming with
professional and political personages when the Durans arrived. The
dinner went off routinely, with no overt references made to the
missile matter. However, the senator noticed that no one inquired into
the health and happiness of his two sons, so that he presumed word had
got around.

It was not until after dinner, when he had seated himself alone in a
corner of the luxurious old living room, a B and B in one hand and a
cigar in the other, that his host approached him.

"Evenin', Vance. Sure glad you could make it," exclaimed the
familiarly jovial voice of Governor Will Gorton.

Duran sat down his drink and took the Governor's plump hand, shaking
it vigorously. Then the senator observed the intense youngish face of
Fritz Ambly, who had followed the Governor.

"Guess you know Fritz," Gorton went on, seating himself next to Duran.
"Says he met you at Sig's office this afternoon."

"That's right," Duran said. "Good to see you again, Ambly."

The Youth Welfare board chairman nodded affably and took the remaining
chair. His look of concern had mellowed somewhat with the evening. But
the pale close eyes remained set in an expression of aggressive
earnestness.

"How's Roger?" Gorton asked, after a moment's silence.

"As normal as ever," said Duran, unprepared for the question. Then,
slyly, he added, "Thanks for talking Loeffler into letting me see
him."

"Well, Sig agreed it was the only thing to do, after I told him you'd
be leaving for Washington again tomorrow," the Governor said.

Duran grinned wryly. It had been a guess, but a good one. And
Loeffler's having passed the interview off as a personal favor put
their relationship back in its proper perspective.

"Well, what's to be done about the boys? They're all under eighteen, I
suppose."

"That's right," Gorton said. "It's entirely a matter for the juvenile
authority. At least we're going to try to keep it there. But there's
more to it than that. Which is why Fritz is here. He has something on
his mind which he thinks is pretty important. I do too."

"You see, Senator," said Ambly, coming in promptly on his cue, "it's
this way. If the case were an isolated one, it would be easy enough
for us to deal with. But it's part of a pattern which few people have
yet noticed. Let me cite several other similar incidents.

"Perhaps you read about the group of fifty teen-aged copter jockeys
who decided to hold a transcontinental scavenger hunt. Ignoring all
air-traffic regulations, they managed to run up the magnificent total
of seventeen collisions and thirty-two casualties."

"Hear about that one, Vance?" the Governor asked, his earlier
festiveness gone.

"Yes, I think I saw something about it," Duran said. "It was pretty
unfortunate, but--"

"And then there was the case of the promising young New England
biologist who was discovered to have evolved a particularly deadly
strain of bacteria, which he had been toting around with him in an
aspirin bottle," Ambly went on, his thin hands clasped tightly in
front of him. "Of course, at the age of sixteen, one perhaps can't be
expected to foresee all of the possible consequences.

"So let us consider the two seventeen-year-olds who caused something
of a sensation in Florida when they used the Branski-Baker method of
genetic exchange to breed a quite fabulous species of winged
alligator. Several of these so called 'alli-bats' escaped into the
everglades, but it is doubted that they will be able to reproduce
themselves. At least there is _some_ doubt."

The senator reached for his drink and sipped it thoughtfully. He was
beginning to see Roger's gang's misadventure in a new light. But it
was an unfamiliar light, one that would take him a while to become
accustomed to.

"Perhaps the most startling case of all," Ambly went on, "concerns the
Nuclear Fission Society of Urania, Nevada. It is not a well publicized
fact that this quasi-academic group of adolescent physicists was
exposed in the act of assembling an elementary but workable atomic
bomb. Many of the elders in this fast-growing little community are
engaged, as you no doubt know, in atomic development of one sort or
another. It seemed that this interest had trickled down to their
offspring, who showed an impressive amount of ingenuity in getting the
necessary materials. Fortunately, one youngster asked his father
entirely too many questions concerning the actual fabrication of
fission weapons. The man investigated and--"

"Now, wait a minute," Duran interrupted, wondering momentarily if the
whole tale might not have been a hoax. "How much of this am I really
expected to believe?"

"It's all fact, Vance," Governor Gorton responded solemnly. "Fritz has
a couple of scrapbooks I'd like you to look at some time. Each case is
pretty well authenticated. But the important thing is the pattern.
It's really sort of frightening in a way."

"Many similar incidents have no doubt occurred of which I have no
record," said Ambly. "I'd estimate that ninety percent of such cases
are suppressed, either in the interest of national security or because
the children's parents are sufficiently influential to have the story
squelched."

"Just as we'd have sat on this one," added Gorton, "if the dang thing
hadn't actually been shot off."

Duran smiled inwardly at the picture evoked by the Governor's
metaphor. However, he had to admit that the press would in all
probability not have learned about the rocket at all, had it been
discovered prior to being launched.

"Still," he remarked, "it's odd that the papers haven't shown more of
an interest in it."

"I wrote an article on the subject some time ago," Ambly told him,
"but was never able to get it published. It seems that people, for the
most part, are more interested in the traditional sordid-sensational
type of juvenile delinquency.

"Whereas, this is something different, something unique. It isn't the
result of poverty or broken homes, ignorance or twisted
personalities--this is a mixture of genius, knowledge, restlessness,
and something else I don't think we understand."

"What do you suggest be done about it?" Duran asked.

"Well, the first step," said Ambly, "is to get Congress to recognize
the problem for what it is. And even that won't be easy."

"That's where you're supposed to come in," the Governor said, grinning
a little guiltily. "Fritz has been tryin' to get me to talk to you
about it for some months. I've got to admit, though, that the business
this afternoon involvin' your son was what finally convinced me you
might be sold."

"I'm sold, Will," Duran told him. "But what's the solution? We can't
supervise the activities of every kid in the country with an IQ above
a hundred and ten. Anyway, they're too limited as it is. That, it
seems to me, is part of the trouble. And we can't hold their parents
accountable. Responsibility has to be an individual matter. So what's
the solution?"

Governor Gorton raised a quizzical eyebrow at Fritz Ambly, who in turn
merely shrugged. The senator glanced at each of them, then down at his
drink.

"So there isn't one," he said.

"Whatever it is," said Ambly, "it won't be simple or painless. There's
only one such solution, and that's the time-honored technique of
letting them grow into maturity. And even that is far from painless
and simple to those doing the growing, nor is it always the solution."

"Yet you're convinced this--" the senator paused briefly, "phenomenon
constitutes a danger to the nation?"

Ambly merely smiled. But very, very grimly.

"Well, think it over, Vance," the Governor said, getting to his feet.
"Say, there are a couple of hydroponics men here somewhere who are
pretty interested in meetin' you. You've heard of Van Neef Industries.
He's one of 'em."

_So much for the welfare of the nation_, Duran thought with a taste of
bitterness. _Now back to politics._

But he finished off his drink, and put out his cigar, and rose to
follow the Governor. Politics, after all, was the reason he had come.
