
Pleasant and satisfying--the key words when you spoke of Sunnylands
Palace, Mr. Sims thought grimly. Everyone used them--when not going
there.

The words gave him a hollow, frightened feeling inside, perhaps because
they made him remember the first time he had heard them used.

"It's a pleasant place and quite satisfying," Dr. Van Stoke had said.
"There's no need to think of it as some kind of torture camp."

"But why should I go there at all?" Mr. Sims had asked. "I don't want
to die. I'm only fifty-six and I've got nine more years left."

"Try and understand I'm doing you a good turn," the doctor had said.
"You've lived fifty-six _good_ years; in your condition, the last nine
won't be so good. You'll have pains, attacks, you won't be able to do
anything strenuous. You'll hate to live under those conditions."

"I could always give it a try," Mr. Sims had protested.

Dr. Van Stoke had frowned bleakly over the tops of his glasses. "I know
I'm a friend and family doctor," the frown had said, "but I'm also
District Referee under the Euthanasian Legislation and you are becoming
a burden to society. So don't make my job any more difficult."

He had signed his name at the bottom of the form.

And Mr. Sims had had a hollow, anxious feeling ever since.

"There's one thing I haven't found out yet," he said to Mr. Hoode. "Is
it in order for me to ask how and when I can expect to die?"

"Certainly," Mr. Hoode said. "It's the reason I brought you here to
talk. You see, anyone sent here under the Legislation is given a
completely free choice as to the manner of his departure. Most people,
although they realize this, show a distressing lack of imagination when
the time comes. They seem unable to think beyond the ordinary methods
of taking a pill, or a needle, or a poisoned cocktail."

"I can't say I'd thought about it, either," Mr. Sims admitted.

"We have a service to assist you," said the director. "We of the
Sunnylands staff have discovered what you might call a Philosophy of
Dying. For instance, if a man lives an active life, there's no reason
why he should be subjected to a sneaking prick of a needle in his
sleep just because he reaches the age of sixty-five. We discovered
that a few people objected strongly to such methods. There are some
people who would prefer to die fighting. We had a couple who chose the
firing squad, for instance. Another desired the guillotine and nothing
would satisfy him but a ride to his fate in a real tumbril. Because of
these--ah--pioneers, our advisory bureau has been set up."

"You mean you obliged them ... with a guillotine and everything?" Mr.
Sims asked.

"Certainly, though most choose the sneaking, cowardly way out. As
far as I am concerned, they died as they lived--ignominously! It's
depressing. We have the best accommodation, food, entertainment,
everything the guest requires during his three days here; then they go
ahead and die their miserable deaths. Somehow it makes all the luxury
seem like pink sugar frosting around a rotten cake. That's why we're
always happy to find a guest with the proper spirit." Mr. Hoode said.
