
Mr. Sims listened in silence to the sales talk, wondering
absent-mindedly what the director's personal interest was in other
people's death.

"I took the liberty of looking up your record," Mr. Hoode continued. "I
picked you out for a personal talk because I see you led an interesting
life." He paused in recollection with a theatrically thoughtful finger
pressed to his chin, his eyes gazing skyward. "You made a small fortune
in oil in Central America before you were twenty. That was followed
by more success in hemelium mining in Northern Canada. An excellent
Third World War record, too. Founder of Transcontinental Rocket Lines.
Co-builder of the Venus rocket. Oh, and a dozen other things. Quite a
career!"

Mr. Sims brightened a little. He smiled modestly.

"Too bad you had to come here at fifty-six," Mr. Hoode remarked.
"Heaven knows what you might have done with those last nine years.
Heart trouble, wasn't it?"

"So I've been told," Mr. Sims said, slipping back into his former glum
mood. He still did not believe he was a sick man, but perhaps this was
because things had moved too fast and he had not been given enough time
to get used to the idea.

"It's a serious cardiac condition," Dr. Van Stoke had told him at the
annual examination, "due to an over-active life. I'll have to recommend
you for Sunnylands."

And that had been the first mention of the subject.

"But I never had heart trouble in my life!"

"The graphs show the condition clearly. There's nothing anyone can do
to remedy it. I'll have to submit your name."

He had protested--threatened--pleaded.

"Overpopulation! Elimination of needless suffering! Burden to society!
Duty to humanity!" The cliches had tripped glibly off the doctor's
tongue as he signed the form. "Will you please send in a member of the
family? I'll give him the final instructions. Save you the trouble of
worrying over little details during the final weeks."

Since then, things had moved more swiftly behind the scenes and he
had had to do nothing except prepare himself--or adopt a realistic
attitude, as Mr. Hoode would have described it. But he had lived too
much to allow him to get used to the idea of dying in two short weeks.
He hadn't even started to get realistic about it, which was probably
why he could sit talking so calmly about death at that moment.
