
"We could give your life a climax," the director was saying. "A man
like you shouldn't just fade away in one of those little cubicles." He
waved a hand in the direction of the shaded windows at the rear of the
palace. "You should die magnificently!"

"Magnificently?" Mr. Sims repeated. "What did you have in mind?"

"It's what _you_ have in mind that counts. I can offer you a lot of
advice, but the final choice is yours. For instance, a large number of
men like to die in some sort of combat, with guns or swords, or even
with animals. We had one man who fought a tiger. Another fulfilled a
life-long ambition to play the role of bullfighter. Perhaps I should
explain that the government allows each guest a generous sum of money
to pay for his departure. As most people do not use one hundredth of
this sum, we have a rather large fund at the disposal of those who want
to use it.

"The bullfighter was a good example," he went on. "We had a large ring
built for him. He was given horses, uniforms, picadores, and a bull
specially imported from Spain. It was a wonderful afternoon." He paused
in contemplation of the memory, while Mr. Sims looked on, tactfully
refraining from asking the outcome.

"Another time, we had a group of old soldiers who wanted to die in
battle," Mr. Hoode added. "We built them an old-fashioned concrete
blockhouse, then gave them authentic uniforms, machine-guns, grenades
and rifles, and had one group attacking and the other defending."

"Did they actually volunteer for that?" Mr. Sims asked.

"Of course, and I'll swear they enjoyed every minute of it. Right down
to the last man. As a matter of fact, we're planning the same thing on
a larger scale with a re-enactment of Custer's Last Stand to be held in
2013. One of the men in Research is working full time on that project.
So far, we have a tentative list of 138 names. It'll be held in the
park over there." He waved gaily in the direction of the quiet meadow
which would one day become another Little Big Horn.

Mr. Sims moved along the seat slightly, as though his companion had
started to smell. It was as if, for the first time, he had noticed the
glazed, visionary look in Mr. Hoode's eye. The director, he realized,
would be capable of re-enacting Hiroshima if given the required number
of volunteers.

"I'll have to leave you, I'm afraid," said Mr. Hoode, standing up. "But
if you'd like to think the matter over some more, I can offer you a
fine selection of books to read about famous deaths, duels, acts of
heroism and such throughout history."

"It's an interesting notion," Mr. Sims said. "I'll think about it."
