
Mr. Sims tried to avoid the director all that day and all the
following morning. He tried hard to convince himself that this was
because he disliked the other's bloodthirsty tendencies, although he
knew the truth was that his choice of departure was a cowardly one.
Nevertheless, he argued with himself, it was his choice, his death,
and his mind was made up. Besides, he felt lonely and this might be an
opportunity to see the family again, even though they probably wouldn't
like it.

It was the director who finally located Mr. Sims. "Are you enjoying
your stay here?" he asked heartily. Mr. Sims winced as though the cold
hand of death itself had slapped him on the back.

"Have you come to any decision yet?"

Mr. Sims nodded. "Yes, I looked at the book last night and decided on
Socrates. Just a simple cup of hemlock."

A slight frown shadowed the director's features. Was it contempt, Mr.
Sims wondered, or disappointment because he had failed in his attempts
to make poisoning seem a socially inferior way of dying? Nothing
glamorous about such a departure, he realized. No disdainful refusal
of the blindfold when gazing bravely into the leveled muzzles of the
firing squad. No bullfight, armed combat, duel or ferocious carnivores.

The director shrugged. "Well, it's tranquil and dignified, I suppose,"
he conceded finally. Then the practical streak in his nature came to
the forefront and his mind ran quickly over the possibilities. "If I
remember correctly, Socrates died in the company of a number of good
friends. They discussed philosophy."

"I'll have my family instead. I've no idea what we'll talk about. Their
names are on this list."

"It's irregular--"

"Nevertheless, I want them here."

"All right," said Mr. Hoode, disappointed. "I'll send for them today.
I'll also see the lab about some hemlock and something authentic to
hold it in--an amphora or whatever the Greeks used. By the way, I'm not
too well acquainted with Socrates. Are there any unusual details?"

"If there are, forget them," Mr. Sims said. "The family and the hemlock
will be sufficient."

Mr. Hoode sniffed peevishly. "As you wish. Be ready tomorrow."
