
The rough woven garment was a concession to Mr. Hoode, who said it was
Grecian, and Mr. Sims wore it to make up for any annoyance he may have
caused the director. It was rather itchy and much too warm, he thought,
as he waited by the fountain at the far end of the park. The hemlock
was in a bronze goblet on the parapet beside him. The family would be
here soon. He wondered how they would feel about being dragged way out
here.

They arrived a half hour later: Cousin Nat, his two nephews, George and
Alec, their wives, and George's five-year-old, Mike. Mr. Hoode was also
with them, but he left the party as soon as he had shown them where Mr.
Sims was waiting.

The meeting was restrained. Clearly they were not happy about making
the trip. There were no smiles of greeting; only young Mike showed any
distinct interest. He sat down at Mr. Sims' feet, playing havoc with
the lawn with a toy dagger.

"Where's the poison, Grandpa?" he asked eagerly.

Mr. Sims lifted the boy up on to his knee and rumpled his hair
playfully in a feeble attempt to ease the tension. The others stood
around silently watching. No one made any move to sit down. It was
their way of telling him they hoped they wouldn't have to wait too
long. Mr. Sims suddenly wished he were in one of the quiet rooms of the
palace, alone.

Cousin Nat was the first one to break the awkward silence. "Who in hell
was that madman who brought us over here?"

"That's Mr. Hoode, the director," Mr. Sims explained. "He's quite an
artist in his way."

"He's insane!" Nat said flatly. "All the way over, he talked about
nothing but dying. Told us we could come here and die any way we
wanted. If any of us wanted to go out like Early Christians, he would
be only too happy to set up an arena for us. He even asked me if I
wanted to put my name down for a rehash of Custer's Last Stand for
2013. With real bullets!" He passed his hand nervously through his
thinning hair. "For God's sake, he must think I _want_ to get scalped!"

"Didn't Dr. Van Stoke come with you?" Mr. Sims asked. "I wanted him to
see the place he sends everyone."

"He went on an ocean cruise," young Mike said.

"Dr. Van Stoke? You mean he left his practice?"

"Yeah," the little boy answered. "Another doctor took his place."

Mr. Sims turned to the others for corroboration. "Is that right? I
didn't think Van Stoke was a rich man. He was only around forty."

"He went with the money Uncle Nat gave him," the boy said.

"That'll be enough, Michael," Nat ordered sternly.
