
A part of this was reaction as a business man. A part was recognition
of all the intolerable things that the Thrid took as a matter of
course. If Jorgenson had reacted solely as a business man he'd have
swallowed it, departed on the next Rim Stars trading-ship--which would
not have left any trade-goods behind--and left the Grand Panjandrum to
realize what he had lost when no off-planet goods arrived on Thriddar.
In time he'd speak and say and observe that he, out of his generosity,
gave the loot back. Then the trading could resume. But Jorgenson didn't
feel only like a business man this morning. He thought of Ganti, who
was a particular case of everything he disliked on Thriddar.

It was not wise to be moved by such sympathetic feelings. The Grand
Panjandrum could not be mistaken. It was definitely unwise to
contradict him. It could even be dangerous. Jorgenson was in a nasty
spot.

The Witnesses murmured reverently:

"We hear the words of the Never-Mistaken Glen-U."

The high official tucked away the scroll and said blandly:

"I will receive the moneys, goods, and benefactions it is the desire
of the Rim Stars Trading Corporation to present to the great and
Never-Mistaken Glen-U."

Jorgenson, boiling inside, nevertheless knew what he was doing. He said
succinctly:

"Like hell you will!"

There was an idiom in Thrid speech that had exactly the meaning of the
human phrase. Jorgenson used it.

The high official looked at him in utter stupefaction. Nobody
contradicted the Grand Panjandrum! Nobody! The Thrid had noticed long
ago that they were the most intelligent race in the universe. Since
that was so, obviously they must have the most perfect government.
But no government could be perfect if its officials made mistakes. So
no Thrid official ever made a mistake. In particular the great and
Never-Mistaken Glen-U could not conceivably blunder! When he said a
thing, it was true! It had to be! He'd said it! And this was the
fundamental fact in the culture of the Thrid.

"Like hell you'll receive moneys and goods and such!" snapped
Jorgenson. "Like hell you will!"

The high official literally couldn't believe his ears.

"But--but the great and Never-Mistaken Glen-U--"

"Is mistaken!" said Jorgenson bitingly. "He's wrong! The Rim Stars
Trading Corporation does _not_ want to give him anything! What he has
said is not true!" This was the equivalent of treason, blasphemy and
the ultimate of indecorous behavior toward a virgin Pelean princess. "I
won't give him anything! I'm not even vanishing from sight! Glen-U is
wrong about that, too! Now--git!"

He jerked out his blaster and pulled the trigger.

There was an explosive burst of flame from the ground between the
official and himself. The official fled. With him fled all the
Witnesses, some even losing their headgear in their haste to get away.
