
Jorgenson stamped into the trading-post building. His eyes were stormy
and his jaw was set.

He snapped orders. The hired Thrid of the trading-post staff had not
quite grasped the situation. They couldn't believe it. Automatically,
as he commanded the iron doors and shutters of the trading post closed,
they obeyed. They saw him turn on the shocker-field so that nobody
could cross the compound without getting an electric shock that would
discourage him. They began to believe.

Then he sent for the trading-post Thrid consultant. On Earth he'd have
called for a lawyer. On a hostile world there'd have been a soldier to
advise him. On Thrid the specialist to be consulted wasn't exactly a
theologian, but he was nearer that than anything else.

Jorgenson laid the matter indignantly before him, repeating the exact
phrases that said the trading company wanted--wanted!--practically to
give itself to the Never-Mistaken Glen-U, who was the Grand Panjandrum
of Thriddar. He waited to be told that it couldn't have happened; that
anyhow it couldn't be intended. But the theologian's Thriddish ears
went limp, which amounted to the same thing as a man's face turning
pale. He stammered agitatedly that if the Grand Panjandrum said it, it
was true. It couldn't be otherwise! If the trading company wanted to
give itself to him, there was nothing to be done. It wanted to! The
Grand Panjandrum had said so!

"He also said," said Jorgenson irritably, "that I'm to vanish and
nevermore be seen face to face by any rational being. How does that
happen? Do I get speared?"

The trading-post theologian quivered. Jorgenson made things much worse.

"This," he raged, "this is crazy! The Grand Panjandrum's an ordinary
Thrid just like you are! Of course he can make a mistake! There's
nobody who can't be wrong!"

The theologian put up feebly protesting, human-like hands. He begged
hysterically to be allowed to go home before Jorgenson vanished, with
unknown consequences for any Thrid who might be nearby.

When Jorgenson opened a door to kick him out of it, the whole staff of
the trading-post plunged after him. They'd been eavesdropping and they
fled in pure horror.

Jorgenson swore impartially at all of them and turned the shocker-field
back on. He plugged in a capacity circuit which would turn on warning
sirens if anything like a steam-driven copter passed or hovered over
the trading-post. He put blasters in handy positions. The Thrid used
only spears, knives and scimitars. Blasters would defend the post
against a multitude.

As a business man, he'd acted very foolishly. But he'd acted even less
sensibly as a human being. He'd gotten fed up with a social system
and a--call it--theology it wasn't his business to change. True, the
Thrid way of life was appalling, and what had happened to Ganti was
probably typical. But it wasn't Jorgenson's affair. He'd been unwise to
let it disturb him. If the Thrid wanted things this way, it was their
privilege.

In theory, no Thrid should ever make a mistake, because he belonged
to the most intelligent race in the universe. But a local governor
was even more intelligent. If an ordinary Thrid challenged a local
governor's least and lightest remark--why--he must be either a criminal
or insane. The local governor decided--correctly, of course--which
he was. If he was a criminal, he spent the rest of his life in a gang
of criminals chained together and doing the most exhausting labor the
Thrid could contrive. If he was mad, he was confined for life.
