
There'd been Ganti, a Thrid of whom Jorgenson had had much hope. He
believed that Ganti could learn to run the trading post without human
supervision. If he could, the trading company could simply bring trade
goods to Thriddar and take away other trade goods. The cost of doing
business would be decreased. There could be no human-Thrid friction.
Jorgenson had been training Ganti for this work.

But the local Thrid governor had spoken and said and observed that
Ganti's wife wanted to enter his household. He added that Ganti wanted
to yield her to him.

Jorgenson had fumed--but not as a business man--when the transfer took
place. But Ganti had been conditioned to believe that when a governor
said he wanted to do something, he did. He couldn't quite grasp the
contrary idea. But he moped horribly, and Jorgenson talked sardonically
to him, and he almost doubted that an official was necessarily right.
When his former wife died of grief, his disbelief became positive. And
immediately afterward he disappeared.

Jorgenson couldn't find out what had become of him. Dour reflection on
the happening had put him in the bad mood which had started things,
this morning.

Time passed. He had the trading-post in a position of defense. He
prepared his lunch, and glowered. More time passed. He cooked his
dinner, and ate. Afterward he went up on the trading-post roof to smoke
and to coddle his anger. He observed the sunset. There was always some
haze in the air on Thriddar, and the colorings were very beautiful. He
could see the towers of the capital city of the Thrid. He could see a
cumbersome but still graceful steam-driven aircraft descend heavily to
the field at the city's edge. Later he saw another steam-plane rise
slowly but reliably and head away somewhere else. He saw the steam
helicopters go skittering above the city's buildings.

He fumed because creatures intelligent enough to build steam fliers
weren't intelligent enough to see what a racket their government was.
Now that the new Grand Panjandrum had moved against him, Jorgenson made
an angry, dogged resolution to do something permanent to make matters
better. For the Thrid themselves. Here he thought not as a business
man only, but as a humanitarian. As both. When a whim of the Grand
Panjandrum could ruin a business, something should be done. And when
Ganti and countless others had been victims of capricious tyranny....
And Jorgenson was slated to vanish from sight and never again be
seen.... It definitely called for strong measures!

He reflected with grim pleasure that the Grand Panjandrum would soon
be in the position of a Thrid whom everybody knew was mistaken. With
the trading-post denied him and Jorgenson still visible, he'd be
notoriously wrong. And he couldn't be, and still be Grand Panjandrum!

It would be a nice situation for Glen-U. He'd have to do something
about it, and there was nothing he could do. He'd blundered, and it
would soon be public knowledge.

Jorgenson dozed lightly. Then more heavily. Then more heavily still.
The night was not two hours old when the warning sirens made a terrific
uproar. The Thrid for miles around heard the wailing, ullulating sound
of the sirens that should have awakened Jorgenson.

But they didn't wake him. He slept on.
