
When he woke, he knew that he was cold. His muscles were cramped. Half
awake, he tried to move and could not.

Then he tried to waken fully, and he couldn't do that either. He stayed
in a dream-like, frustrated state which was partly like a nightmare,
while very gradually new sensations came to him. He felt a cushioned
throbbing against his chest, in the very hard surface on which he lay
face down. That surface swayed and rocked slightly. He tried again to
move, and realized that his hands and feet were bound. He found that he
shivered, and realized that his clothing had been taken from him.

He was completely helpless and lying on his stomach in the cargo-space
of a steam helicopter: now he could hear the sound of its machinery.

Then he knew what had happened. He'd committed The unthinkable
crime--or lunacy--of declaring the Grand Panjandrum mistaken. So by the
operation of truth, which was really an anesthetic gas cloud drifted
over the trading post, he had vanished from sight.

Now it was evidently to be arranged that he would never again be seen
face to face by a rational being. The Grand Panjandrum had won the
argument. Within a few months a Rim Stars trading ship would land, and
Jorgenson would be gone and the trading post confiscated. It would be
hopeless to ask questions, and worse than hopeless to try to trade. So
the ship would lift off and there'd be no more ships for at least a
generation. Then there might--there might!--be another.

Jorgenson swore fluently and with passion.

"It will not be long," said a tranquil voice.

Jorgenson changed from human-speech profanity to Thrid. He directed
his words to the unseen creature who'd spoken. That Thrid listened,
apparently without emotion. When Jorgenson ran out of breath, the voice
said severely:

"You declared the great and Never-Mistaken Glen-U mistaken. This could
not be. It proved you either a criminal or insane, because no rational
creature could believe him mistaken. He declared you insane, and he
cannot be wrong. So soon you will arrive where you are to be confined
and no rational being will ever see you face to face."

Jorgenson switched back to human swearing. Then he blended both
languages, using all the applicable words he knew both in human speech
and Thrid. He knew a great many. The soft throbbing of the steam-driven
rotors went on, and Jorgenson swore both as a business man and a
humanitarian. Both were frustrated.

Presently the motion of the copter changed. He knew the ship was
descending. There were more violent swayings, as if from wind gusts
deflected by something large and solid. Jorgenson even heard deep-bass
rumblings like sea upon a rocky coast. Then there were movements near
him, a rope went around his waist, a loading-bay opened and he found
himself lifted and lowered through it.
