
He dangled in midair, a couple of hundred feet above an utterly barren
island on which huge ocean swells beat. The downdraft from the copter
made him sway wildly, and once it had him spinning dizzily. The horizon
was empty. He was being lowered swiftly to the island. And his hands
and feet were still securely tied.

Then he saw a figure on the island. It was a Thrid stripped of all
clothing like Jorgenson and darkened by the sun. That figure came
agilely toward where he was let down. It caught him. It checked his
wild swingings, which could have broken bones. The rope slackened. The
Thrid laid Jorgenson down.

He did not cast off the rope. He seemed to essay to climb it.

It was cut at the steam-copter and came tumbling down all over both of
them. The Thrid waved his arms wildly and seemed to screech gibberish
at the sky. There was an impact nearby, of something dropped. Jorgenson
heard the throbbing sound of the copter as it lifted and swept away.

Then he felt the bounds about his arms and legs being removed. Then a
Thrid voice--amazingly, a familiar Thrid voice--said:

"This is not good, Jorgenson. Who did you contradict?"

The Thrid was Ganti, of whom Jorgenson had once had hopes as a business
man, and for whose disaster he had felt indignation as something else.
He loosened the last of Jorgenson's bonds and helped him sit up.

Jorgenson glared around. The island was roughly one hundred feet by
two. It was twisted, curdled yellow stone from one end to the other.
There were stone hillocks and a miniature stony peak, and a narrow
valley between two patches of higher rock. Huge seas boomed against
the windward shore, throwing spray higher than the island's topmost
point. There were some places where sand had gathered. There was one
spot--perhaps a square yard of it--where sand had been made fertile by
the droppings of flying things and where two or three starveling plants
showed foliage of sorts. That was all. Jorgenson ground his teeth.

"Go ahead," said Ganti grimly, "but it may be even worse than you
think."

He scrambled over the twisted stone of the island. He came back,
carrying something.

"It isn't worse," he said. "It's only as bad. They did drop food and
water for both of us. I wasn't sure they would."
