
His calmness sobered Jorgenson. As a business man, he was moved to make
his situation clear. He told Ganti of the Grand Panjandrum's move to
take over the Rim Stars trading post, which was bad business. He told
of his own reaction, which was not a business-like one at all. Then he
said dourly:

"But he's still wrong. No rational being is supposed ever to see me
face to face. But you do."

"But I'm crazy," said Ganti calmly. "I tried to kill the governor
who'd taken my wife. So he said I was crazy and that made it true. So
I wasn't put in a chained group of laborers. Somebody might have seen
me and thought about it. But, sent here, it's worse for me and I'm
probably forgotten by now."

He was calm about it. Only a Thrid would have been so calm. But they've
had at least hundreds of generations in which to get used to injustice.
He accepted it. But Jorgenson frowned.

"You've got brains, Ganti. What's the chance of escape?"

"None," said Ganti unemotionally. "You'd better get out of the sun.
It'll burn you badly. Come along."

He led the way over the bare, scorching rocky surface. He turned past a
small pinnacle. There was shadow. Jorgenson crawled into it, and found
himself in a cave. It was not a natural one. It had been hacked out,
morsel by morsel. It was cool inside. It was astonishingly roomy.

"How'd this happen?" demanded Jorgenson the business man.

"This is a prison," Ganti explained matter-of-factly. "They let me
down here and dropped food and water for a week. They went away. I
found there'd been another prisoner here before me. His skeleton was in
this cave. I reasoned it out. There must have been others before him.
When there is a prisoner here, every so often a copter drops food and
water. When the prisoner doesn't pick it up, they stop coming. When,
presently, they have another prisoner they drop him off, like me, and
he finds the skeleton of the previous prisoner, like me, and he dumps
it overboard as I did. They'll drop food and water for me until I stop
picking it up. And presently they'll do the same thing all over again."

Jorgenson glowered. That was his reaction as a person. Then he gestured
to the cave around him. There was a pile of dried-out seaweed for
sleeping purposes.

"And this?"

"Somebody dug it out," said Ganti without resentment. "To keep busy.
Maybe one prisoner only began it. A later one saw it started and worked
on it to keep busy. Then others in their turn. It took a good many
lives to make this cave."

Jorgenson ground his teeth a second time.

"And just because they'd contradicted somebody who couldn't be wrong!
Or because they had a business an official wanted!"

"Or a wife," agreed Ganti. "Here!"

He offered food. Jorgenson ate, scowling. Afterward, near sundown, he
went over the island.

It was rock, nothing else. There was a pile of small broken stones from
the excavation of the cave. There were the few starveling plants. There
was the cordage with which Jorgenson had been lowered. There was the
parcel containing food and water. Ganti observed that the plastic went
to pieces in a week or so, so it couldn't be used for anything. There
was nothing to escape with. Nothing to make anything to escape with.

Even the dried seaweed bed was not comfortable. Jorgenson slept badly
and waked with aching muscles. Ganti assured him unemotionally that
he'd get used to it.

He did. By the time the copter came to drop food and water again,
Jorgenson was physically adjusted to the island. But neither as a
business man or as a person could he adjust to hopelessness.

He racked his brains for the most preposterous or faintest hope of
deliverance. There were times when as a business man he reproached
himself for staying on Thriddar after he became indignant with the way
the planet was governed. It was very foolish. But much more often he
felt such hatred of the manners and customs of the Thrid--which had
put him here--that it seemed that something must somehow be possible if
only so he could take revenge.


                                  III

The copter came, it dropped food and water, and it went away. It came,
dropped food and water, and went away. Once a water-bag burst when
dropped. They lost nearly half a week's water supply. Before the copter
came again they'd gone two days without drinking.

There were other incidents, of course. The dried seaweed they slept on
turned to powdery trash. They got more seaweed hauling long kelp-like
strands of it ashore from where it clung to the island's submerged
rocks. Ganti mentioned that they must do it right after the copter
came, so there would be no sign of enterprise to be seen from aloft.
The seaweed had long, flexible stems of which no use whatever could be
made. When it dried, it became stiff and brittle but without strength.

Once Ganti abruptly began to talk of his youth. As if he were examining
something he'd never noticed before, he told of the incredible
conditioning-education of the young members of his race. They learned
that they must never make a mistake. Never! It did not matter if they
were unskilled or inefficient. It did not matter if they accomplished
nothing. There was no penalty for anything but making mistakes or
differing from officials who could not make mistakes.

So Thrid younglings were trained not to think; not to have any opinion
about anything; only to repeat what nobody questioned; only to do what
they were told by authority. It occurred to Jorgenson that on a planet
with such a population, a skeptic could make a great deal of confusion.

Then, another time, Jorgenson decided to make use of the weathering
cord which had been cut from the copter when he was landed. He cut
off a part of it with a sharp-edged fragment of stone from the pile
some former prisoner on the island had made. He unravelled the twisted
fibers. Then he ground fishhooks from shells attached to the island's
rocky walls just below water-line. After that they fished. Sometimes
they even caught something to eat. But they never fished when the
copter was due.

Jorgenson found that a fish-fillet, strongly squeezed and wrung like a
wet cloth, would yield a drinkable liquid which was not salt and would
substitute for water. And this was a reason to make a string bag in
which caught fish could be let back into the sea so they were there
when wanted but could not escape.

They had used it for weeks when he saw Ganti, carrying it to place it
where they left it overboard, swinging it idly back and forth as he
walked.
