
If Jorgenson had been only a businessman, it would have had no
particular meaning. But he was also a person, filled with hatred of
the Thrid who had condemned him for life to this small island. He saw
the swinging of the fish. It gave him an idea.

He did not speak at all during all the rest of that day. He was
thinking. The matter needed much thought. Ganti left him alone.

But by sunset he'd worked it out. While they watched Thrid's red sun
sink below the horizon, Jorgenson said thoughtfully:

"There is a way to escape, Ganti."

"On what? In what?" demanded Ganti.

"In the helicopter that feeds us," said Jorgenson.

"It never lands," said Ganti practically.

"We can make it land," said Jorgenson. Thrid weren't allowed to make
mistakes; he could make it a mistake not to land.

"The crew is armed," said Ganti. "There are three of them."

"They've only knives and scimitars," said Jorgenson. "They don't count.
We can make better weapons than they have."

Ganti looked skeptical. Jorgenson explained. He had to demonstrate
crudely. The whole idea was novel to Ganti, but the Thrid were smart.
Presently he grasped it. He said:

"I see the theory. If we can make it work, all right. But how do we
make the copter land?"

Jorgenson realized that they talked oddly. They spoke with leisurely
lack of haste, with the lack of hope normal to prisoners to whom escape
is impossible, even when they talk about escape. They could have been
discussing a matter that would not affect either of them. But Jorgenson
quivered inside. He hoped.

"We'll try it," said Ganti detachedly, when he'd explained again. "If
it fails, they'll only stop giving us food and water."

That, of course, did not seem either to him or Jorgenson a reason to
hesitate to try what Jorgenson had planned.

It was not at all a direct and forthright scheme. It began with the
untwisting of more of the rope that had lowered Jorgenson. It went on
with the making of string from that fiber. They made a great deal of
string. Then, very clumsily and awkwardly, they wove strips of cloth,
a couple of inches wide and five or six long. They made light strong
cords extend from the ends of the cloth strips. Then they practiced
with these bits of cloth and the broken stones a former prisoner had
piled so neatly.

The copter came and dropped food and water. When it left, they
practiced. When it came again they were not practicing, but when it
went away they practiced. They were a naked man and a naked Thrid,
left upon a morsel of rock in a boundless sea, rehearsing themselves
in an art so long-forgotten that they had to reinvent the finer parts
of the technique. They experimented. They tried this. They tried that.
When the copter appeared, they showed themselves. They rushed upon the
dropped bag containing food and water as if fiercely trying to deny
each other a full share. Once they seemed to fight over the dropped
bag. The copter hovered to watch. The fight seemed furious and deadly,
but inconclusive.

When the copter went away Jorgenson and Ganti went briskly back to
their practicing.
