
They were almost satisfied with their proficiency, now. They had lost
some of the small stones, but there were many left. They began to work
with seaweed, the kind with long central stems which dried to brittle
stiffness. They determined exactly how long they should be allowed
to dry. They studied the way in which the flat seaweed foliage must
be dried on rounded stone spaces to form seemingly solid surfaces of
almost any shape. But they were utterly brittle when they were dry. It
was not possible to make them hold any form for more than a day or so,
even if sprinkled with cold water to keep them from crumbling to dust.

And they practiced with the strip of cloth and the stones. Ganti became
more skilful than Jorgenson, but even Jorgenson became an expert.

There came a day when the copter dropped the bag of food and Ganti
danced with seeming rage and shook his fist at it. The crew-Thrid saw
him, but paid no attention. They went away. And Ganti and Jorgenson
went to work.

They hauled seaweed ashore. It had to dry to some degree before it
could hold a form at all. While it dried, they practiced. The leaves
were ready before the stems. They spread them on rounded surfaces,
many leaves thick. They dried to dark-gray-greenish stuff looking
like the crudest possible cardboard without a fraction of cardboard's
strength or stiffness. Presently the stems were dry enough to be stiff
but not yet entirely brittle. They made a framework, uniting its
members with string from the dropped rope.

Two days before the copter was due again, they used the cardboard-like
but fragile curved sheet of seaweed-leaves to cover the frame.
Finished, they had what looked like the fuselage of a landed copter.

Thicker but brittle sections of the stems seemed rotor-blades when more
seaweed-cardboard was attached. From two hundred feet, the crudities of
the object would not show. It would look like a helicopter landed on
the island where Jorgenson and Ganti were confined.

It would look like a rescue.

When the copter arrived, it checked in midair as if it braked. It hung
in the air. Its crew stared down. They saw a strange aircraft there.
The helicopter whirled and went streaking away toward the horizon.

Jorgenson and Ganti immediately attacked their own creation. The
framework was brittle; barely able to sustain its own weight. They
furiously demolished the whole thing. They hauled its fragments into
the cave. They worked furiously to remove every trace of its former
presence.

Within two hours a fleet of six steam-copters came driving across the
sea. They swept over the island. They looked. They saw Jorgenson and
Ganti--naked man and naked Thrid--glaring up at them. They saw nothing
else. There was nothing else to see.

There was a Thrid official on one of the copters. The matter had been
reported to him. A helicopter could only have landed on this island
to rescue the prisoners. They were not rescued. There had been no
helicopter. The crew of the craft which made the report had made a
mistake!

Jorgenson and Ganti gloated together when darkness had fallen. The
copter-crew had made a false report. They would face an angry official.
Either they'd take back their original report, or stick to it. If
they took it back, they'd tried to deceive an official, who could not
be wrong. Jorgenson and Ganti gloated over what they'd done to their
jailers.


                                  IV

When a copter came again a week later, it was not the same flier or
the same crew. The bag of food and water was dropped from a different
height. The copter hovered until it saw both Jorgenson and Ganti. Then
it went away.

They set to work again on seaweed hauled from the sea, and leaves
smoothed over each other on suitable surfaces of rock. Stems up to four
and five inches in diameter to be straightened out and almost dried to
seem rotor-shafts, and lesser stems to make a framework. The mockup
was tied together with string. They finished it the night before the
copter was due again, and they practiced with their bits of cloth and
the stones until the light ended. They practiced again at day-break,
but when the helicopter came across the sea they were nowhere visible.

But there was an aircraft aground upon the island. From the air it
looked remarkably convincing.

The prisoners listened eagerly from the hollowed-out cave. The mockup
on the ground was in a miniature valley between sections of taller
stone. It could be seen from above, but not well from the side. From
one end it could not be seen at all, but from the other it was a
remarkable job. It would deceive any eyes not very close indeed.

The flying helicopter hovered and hovered, sweeping back and forth.
Its crew-members saw no movement anywhere, which was not possible. If
there was an aircraft aground, there must be Thrid who had flown it
here. They were not to be seen. The prisoners were not to be seen. The
situation was impossible.

Jorgenson and Ganti waited.

The flying jailers could not report what they saw. A previous crew had
done that, and when they were proved mistaken or worse, they donned
chains to do hard labor so long as they lived. But the Thrid in the
copter over the island dared not not-report. Somebody else might sight
it, and they'd be condemned for not reporting. They couldn't report it
and they couldn't not-report it!

Jorgenson grinned when the throbbing of the rotors became louder and
louder as the steam-helicopter descended. He and Ganti made ready.

The flying vehicle landed. They heard it. Its crew got out, fearful but
alert and with weapons handy. One stayed close by the ship, his ears
shriveled with terror. The other two, weapons very much to the fore,
moved cautiously to examine the aircraft which could not possibly be
here.

Jorgenson and Ganti, together, scrambled from the hollowed-out cave.

Ganti swung his strip of cloth. It had a strong cord attached to each
end, and he held the cords so the cloth formed a pocket in which a
stone lay. The whole whirled furiously. Ganti released one cord. The
stone flew. It struck the Thrid on guard by the machine squarely in
the middle of his forehead. Jorgenson's stone arrived the fraction
of a second later, before the Thrid started to fall. They moved out,
Jorgenson grinning in a most un-businessman-like manner. They heard the
startled exclamation of the other two newcomers as they realized that
they saw only a mockup of a landed flier, a thing which crumbled as
they touched it.

Jorgenson and Ganti swung their slings together. The jailer-Thrid
turned just in time to see what was happening to them. It was final.

And the copter took off again with Ganti and Jorgenson clothed and with
an adequate supply of stones in improvised pockets in their garments.
