
Any Thrid official, to whom it was impossible to be mistaken, would
develop eccentric notions.

Most humans couldn't stand by and watch. They got off Thriddar as soon
as possible. At the moment, Jorgenson couldn't leave the planet, but he
didn't want to see what Ganti could and would and by human standards
probably ought to do. He camped in the steam-copter, in hiding, until
Ganti sent him a message.

Then he started up the copter and flew back to the trading post. It
was empty. Gutted. Looted. But there was a high official waiting for
him in the courtyard. He held a scroll in his hand. It glinted golden.
When Jorgenson regarded him grimly, the high official made a sound
equivalent to clearing his throat, and the Witness-hatted Thrid around
him became silent.

"On this day," intoned the high official, "on this day did Ganti, the
Never-Mistaken, as have been his predecessors through the ages;--on
this day did the Never-Mistaken Ganti speak and say and observe a truth
in the presence of the governors and the rulers of the universe."

Jorgenson listened grimly. The new Grand Panjandrum had made
him--Jorgenson--a provincial governor.

Ganti was grateful. The contents of the trading post would be returned.
From this time on the Rim Stars Trading Corporation would prosper as
never before.

But Jorgenson wasn't a Thrid. He saw things as a businessman does, but
also and contradictorily he saw them as right and just or wrong and
intolerable. As a businessman, he saw that everything had worked out
admirably. As a believer in right and wrong, it seemed to him that
nothing in particular had happened.

He'd have done better, he considered, to do what most humans did after
understanding what went on on Thriddar, and what seemingly always must
go on on Thriddar. Because the Thrid had noticed that they were the
most intelligent race in the universe, and therefore must have the
most perfect possible government whose officials must inevitably be
incapable of making a mistake....

When the Rim Stars trading ship came to ground, a month later,
Jorgenson went on board and stayed there. He remained on board when the
ship left. Thriddar was no place for him.

         [Transcriber's Note: No Section II in original text.]



