
Jeffrey Simon rose from his bed, awakened by the rhythm of march music
outside his small apartment. He shuffled sleepily to a window. He
blinked at the array of flags and bunting that lined the street.

The music became louder.

He ran a shaky, withered hand over his wizened face, brushed stringy
white hair back from his forehead. His lips curved in a grim
half-smile.

"It's starting," he murmured, "--the day that should have been yours."

He realized that he was talking to himself again. But although he was
only fifty-six, talking aloud seemed natural to him. It not only eased
his loneliness; it also helped him to clarify his muddled thoughts.

"Today is your last chance. Not tomorrow or the next day. It _has_ to
be today."

The thump-thump of a base drum was like a gigantic heart-beat shaking
all the land. The blare of trumpets was a victory song, strong enough
to live in the mind of a man forever, strong enough to silence forever
the voices of fear and loneliness that might haunt a spaceman.

"That's the music," Jeffrey Simon muttered, "that should have been
yours."

A crimson-lettered banner said: EVERSON--THE FIRST.

What a mockery those words were! It was like worshiping an evil,
false-faced goddess. The illusion should and must be destroyed.

He jerked erect. He must move quickly. He must put an end to this
cosmic lie.

He dressed in a freshly-cleaned, single-breasted tweed suit. His tie
was hastily knotted. There was no time for breakfast.

He strode to a drawer of his bureau, yanked it open, dug away a layer
of under-clothing. He smiled as he beheld two objects.

His hands moved gently. His hands were like those of a florist
arranging a garland of delicate blossoms. They were like the hands of a
surgeon fearful of a fatal error. They were like the hands of a father
upon his first-born.

He picked up the stone.

It was a bright, phosphorescent green, mottled with flecks of gold and
no larger than an apple. Its glow seemed to fill all the room. Jeffrey
remembered the cave at the base of Luna's Mount Pico from where he'd
chipped it. The cave's eerie glow had almost seemed alive, quivering
and pulsing with alien energy. Jeffrey, in his space-suit and half
blinded, had staggered when he left with his specimen.

Next, he touched the photograph.

It was a moment of eternity captured long ago and still imprisoned
in a wrinkled, yellowed paper. On it was the rocket, the _Marilyn_,
which had been his home for fifteen years. Behind it, on a rise in the
pock-marked Lunar terrain, was one of the launching stations which
had never been used. In the background loomed the nightmarish Tenerife
Mountains. And hovering above all in a sky of black velvet was a
shining, blue-green ball--the earth.

Carefully, Jeffrey placed the photograph in a large envelope and slid
it, with the stone, into his coat's inner pocket.

"They'll believe now," he murmured. "They ignored the letters, the
telegrams. Now, with proof, they'll believe. They'll learn what is a
lie and what is the truth. They'll learn who was _really_ first."

A moment later he was on the street, struggling to filter through the
crowd. For a few seconds he knew terror, because those in the crowd
had surrendered all individuality. They had become a single, automatic
entity, hypnotized by the tapestry of color and sound and responding
to it alone. The crowd closed in upon him like the tentacles of an
octopus, imprisoning him and thrusting him forward and back.

At last, panting, he broke free. He found a side street--one that would
not be invaded by the parade. He walked swiftly. Then, although breath
came hard, he ran.
