
Carved above the entrance of the huge stone building were the words:

                         UNITED STATES BUREAU
                           OF INTERPLANETARY
                               RESEARCH

Jeffrey stopped to catch his breath. How many of his letters had
passed over that mountainous series of steps? How many, like those to
Congress, to the Pentagon and to the President, had been crumpled,
torn, tossed into waste baskets?

It didn't matter. He was doing now what he should have done a month
ago--appearing in person with his proof.

He lumbered up the stone steps. His watery eyes widened at the bright
murals in the vast foyer--murals of stars and planets, of rockets and
spacemen, all centered about a gigantic and symbolic pair of human
hands reaching upward.

Jeffrey squinted down the white, clean, cool halls.

So this was where spacemen of today lived, studied, worked,
experimented. How different from that battered quonset hut in the hot,
wind-burnt New Mexican desert.

"May I help you, sir?"

The voice snapped him back to reality.

He turned and saw a young man seated at a desk a short distance away.
The man was sleepy-eyed, with black, close-cropped hair and ears that
were too big. On the desk was a placard that said: _Officer of The Day:
Lieutenant Andrews_.

The lieutenant drummed his fingers on the desk. "Speak up, old timer.
What is it? If you want information on today's flight, just help
yourself to these folders."

"No, no." Jeffrey walked up to the desk, brushed away the folders.
"I--I want to see someone in authority. There's something I have to
tell them."

"I'm in charge. Go ahead and tell it to me."

Jeffrey trembled. "It's going to sound crazy. You might not believe--"

"Go ahead and tell it. Then I'll decide whether to believe."

Confidence came to Jeffrey. He touched the reassuring bulge of the
stone and the photograph in his pocket. Then he began to speak.

"Well, you've read how things were back in 1957. The world cut in half.
Communism on one side, Democracy on the other. Both sides threatening
the other. Both building faster and faster jets and bigger and bigger
H-bombs. People felt like they were walking on tight-ropes.

"In August of '57 the Russians announced that they had the biggest
H-bomb ever made. The President and his cabinet and the top brass met.
The Army Chief of Staff was already on record in saying there was no
perfect defense against an H-bomb attack. Radar nets, anti-aircraft
and fighter planes would take care of a lot of attacking bombers
or missiles, but some would probably get through. There had to be
something else--something as daring as the first A-bomb project back in
World War II.

"The answer was obvious: a _manned_ artificial satellite."

The lieutenant stiffened. He made a sucking noise with his lips.

"Yep," Jeffrey continued, "a manned satellite. Our scientists had
developed the tiny, unmanned 'mouse.' A full-scale version was
tougher--but possible.

"And a nation in control of such a satellite would watch over all
the world. From its near-zero gravity it could launch guided atomic
missiles to any point on the earth."

Jeffrey cleared his throat. His listener was still attentive.

"So Project Pandora began. Like the Manhattan Project, it was top
secret, because we didn't want the Russians to start like crazy on
their own Project. I never learned how many men were involved--probably
about 100,000. But all except maybe a hundred or so thought they were
working on new types of jets or fuels.

"A new town--Pandora City--sprang up in New Mexico for general
research. Really top secret stuff, like the construction of our
rockets, was handled in Hell Canyon, which probably still isn't on your
maps. You couldn't get there except by cargo-carrying helicopter.

"I was a guided missile man transferred from Point Mugu to the Canyon.
Entering that hell-hole was like being sentenced for life. We had our
movies and beer, but the sun and mountains were still there. I used to
look at those mountains and wonder if I dared try to escape. Then I
thought of the desert on the other side. There _was_ no escape--except
through death or by finishing the damn project.

"By the fall of '58 we had our fuel. Dilute monatomic
hydrogen--powerful as the guts of an H-bomb, but controllable, suitable
for atomic engines. Powered with that fuel, a rocket could rip through
the old seven-mile-a-second barrier like a knife cutting through tissue
paper.

"Then a new question came up. Was the artificial satellite the ideal
solution to our problem? Even at a height of a thousand miles, it could
be visible to Russian astronomers. Russian knowledge of our secret
could start off a Third World War. And, if the Russians developed their
own guided missile program, the satellite might be vulnerable.

"We'd developed an alloy of rare earths for our jet tubes, so there was
no reason why we couldn't hit the moon direct. A Lunar station could be
camouflaged, and launching platforms for missiles could be scattered.
Most important, the moon would give us utter secrecy."

Jeffrey's voice trailed. A cloud of memory seemed to drift before his
vision. "And--and I guess there was something else, too. We didn't want
to stop with just a satellite. We had the power to take space by the
nose and pull it around like a whipped dog. The first men to leave our
planet--think of those words. The first, the very first. The thought
makes you a little drunk."

He smiled. "The President, his cabinet, the top brass okayed our ideas.
So the moon it was!"
