
Jeffrey tried to keep his voice calm, his manner confident.

"Then came the Russian Revolution of '74, the rise of democracy behind
the crumbling Iron Curtain. The rest of the world watched and waited.
We kept those launching platforms ready--just in case. But by '76,
there was no doubt about it. Communism was over and done. The world was
at peace.

"And with the arrival of peace, man's energies had to be directed into
new channels. Till now, the government had quietly discouraged any talk
about space flight. But now man craved adventure. Newspapers and public
opinion began to beat the drum for that first flight to the moon."

He chuckled softly. "The President must have been tearing his hair out.
What the hell was he going to do with Project Pandora? The Russians
mustn't know that for fifteen years our missiles had been ready to
blast them to eternity. The old hates had been buried. They couldn't be
allowed to rise again.

"So Project Pandora became Project Garbage. The domes and platforms
were dismantled and carried back to Pandora City. The moon was the
biggest garbage dump in the Solar System, but it had to be cleaned up
to the last beer can and cigarette butt. It had to become virgin again,
ready to receive what Earth would later call the first pioneers of
space. And it was then, when discipline was low, that I smuggled out
the moon-stone and the photo.

"Everybody got the memory-wash--from the President on down. I was a
civilian again with a nice pension. For the first couple of years I
couldn't remember a thing. I only knew I'd done secret work for the
government. I'd look at my photo and stone and wonder where I got them.

"But gradually my memory came back. Maybe it was because of the photo,
or maybe because I'd been on Luna and the _Marilyn_ so much longer than
the others.

"Last year I got mad when Everson announced plans to hit the moon.
His name was in headlines every day. He was becoming a hero without
even leaving the ground. And there were a hundred men whose bodies were
already lost on Luna. They were the real heroes, the real pioneers.
This celebration today--it's a mockery. I want the world to know the
truth."
