
Restlessly, Jeffrey rose and shuffled to a window. One of the city's
myriad parades, like a battalion of colored ants, was streaming down
the street.

The small-eyed man yelled, "Come on, let's have that story again! This
time it's for publication."

Jeffrey didn't answer. Odd thoughts were stirring in deep recesses of
his mind.

"Come on! Let's have that story!"

Jeffrey stared out the window, a far-away gaze in his eyes. "Do--do
you suppose I was the only one who remembered? There must be others. I
couldn't be the only one."

"Sure, there could be others--if your yarn is true. Maybe they've tried
to tell and nobody believed 'em. Or maybe they're keeping quiet. Maybe
they don't want to make dopes out of Everson and his men. Maybe they
want to keep 'em heroes. Now, gimme that story!" He flicked a switch on
the dicto-typer.

Words echoed in Jeffrey's brain. _Maybe they don't want to make dopes
out of Everson and his men. Maybe they want to keep 'em heroes. It's
a cinch they won't start cheering you for what you did almost twenty
years ago._

The world has need of heroes, he thought. There's Luna, and then there
are Venus and Mars and Jupiter and all the others; and, always, there
are the stars. And, between, there are miles and years of darkness and
loneliness, and courage is a candle flame too easily extinguished.
Mankind will need songs of daring and tales of heroes and signposts to
guide the way to infinity. You can't make heroes out of men whose very
names are forgotten. You can't make heroes out of tired old bones.

Jeffrey frowned as the hum of presses echoed in his ears.

The great headlines would descend upon the enchanted city like a black
tidal wave. They would swirl through the streets, devour the bright
color, absorb the gay sound, suck the joy into dark waters of doubt and
suspicion.

The small-eyed man was shouting at him. He did not hear.

_After all_, Jeffrey told himself, _this is for you. It's not for
Everson and his men, really. It's for the pioneers, for those who dare
to be first. The eyes are not on you, and the voices do not speak to
you. Yet all this, really, is for you--for you were the first. Would
you destroy this day that is yours?_

A voice was swearing at him.

What a day it was! Why, it must be the greatest in the history of
Earth. It was a day for all history books everywhere, always. It was a
shame that the minutes were piling one upon the other so rapidly. How
wonderful if they could be bottled and sealed like sweet perfume, to be
dispensed slowly, a scent a month, a drop a year.

Hands were tugging at his arm. He shook himself free. He turned back to
the desk, seized the moon-stone and the photograph, replaced them in
his pocket.

Silently, head high, he strode past the naked, astonished faces.
