
These statues of the Makers are rare, and I was surprised to see one in
an Onist village. I got on my knees at once to do it reverence. I
realize it was impious to look up, but I did--I had to see if it were
the genuine thing. And it was, to the last detail. Constructed of the
forbidden substance known as metal, it towered three times a Pluralist's
height, or three times an Onist's, for that matter. I have always
wondered why the Makers did not create our ancestors in their own
substance, as they had fashioned us in their image. But that is an
impious thought.

A stern gray-haired Onist who said he was Nari's father took me aside
afterwards. "Now, Jak," he asked me, "what can you say of what you have
seen?"

I shrugged. "I can say that somehow you've found one of the Maker
statues. What more?"

"It's one, is it not?"

"Of course it's one. They are rare, but I have seen three, all told, in
Pluralist villages."

"And each time they were separate? You never saw a group?"

"No. No, I didn't."

He slapped his hands together triumphantly. "Then that proves it. Each
is a copy of the original Maker, but there was only one. Otherwise you
would have seen statues in groups. And that is why you are here, Jak: we
want you to go back to your people and tell them what you saw."

I shook my head. "What you say isn't logical. So what if the statues are
never in pairs or groups? We've only seen a few, when once there must
have been many. Also, when your artists do their magic with dyes and
create portraits, are they generally done one at a time or in groups?"

"One at a time, so the artist may capture the personality in each face,
naturally. I have seen group portraits, but I think they are silly
things."

"Exactly." Now I was triumphant. "Exactly as the Makers thought, which
is why the statues are always single--"

"But it is impious to say there was more than one Maker! He had all the
knowledge in the world at his fingertips, and so there was no need for
more than one. More than this world, even: he went to the stars. Or
don't you believe that?"

"Of course I believe it. Only, _they_ went to the stars, the thousands
of Makers. It isn't impious, because if you can think of one being as
great as that, try to picture thousands. Yes, thousands. That makes me
thousands of times more pious than you Onists."

He shook his head wearily. "What's the use? It is for this we are
fighting our war, and we thought if we took one of you here, showed him
the undeniable truth of our statue.... Well, will you at least return to
your people with a tale of what you have seen?"

I agreed readily enough: probably, the alternative was death. Although
Pluralists on rare occasions have been known to take Onist women as
their wives, an Onist prisoner of war was an unwanted thing. The reverse
would also be true.
