
They all bid me goodbye, except for Nari. I could not find her anywhere
in the village, and a little sadly I set out on my long journey back to
the Sunset Land. By now our raiding party had finished its work on the
small Onist village on the rim of our country, and I could do nothing
but return to my people, where we might plan new strategy against the
unbelievers.

But I had wanted to bid Nari farewell.

I met her in the woodlands, a travel bag slung over her shoulder like a
male's. "I wanted to say goodbye privately," she told me.

"Good," I said, but I knew she was lying. Else why the travel bag?

"Goodbye," Nari whispered, but she was not looking at me. Looking,
instead, behind her, at the land of her people.

"Nari," I told her, "I have to admit it. You are very pretty--even by
Pluralist standards. You are--"

This time she did not stumble against me. It wasn't necessary. I drew
her to me, and I kissed her a long kiss. Then I told her I loved her,
and women, I suppose, will always be women, because she said she knew
it.

I will take Nari back to our village in the Sunset Land, where we will
be married by the laws of my people. And if ever there is to be peace
between the Pluralists and the Onists, it may, after all, come on these
grounds. The Onists have their beliefs, and so I hate them for their
impious thoughts. But the love of a man for a maid exists apart from
that.

It won't be easy. Our arguing continued all the way back to the Sunset
Land, and Nari is as stubborn as I am firm.

"There is one Maker," she said.

And I told her, "No, there are many."

Or later, as we neared the Sunset Land, we picked up the thread of our
thoughts again. Pluralist or Onist, we androids are dogmatic creatures.

"One Robot created us all before he went to the stars," said Nari.

"Robots," I said. "Many Robots." But I kissed her.


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _If Worlds of Science Fiction_ July
    1952. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



