
Chomby studied the earthman. "I believe you would. In your world such
a trait would be considered admirable. You are hard, Cappyupjohn, and
brave. But it is not your kind that makes your race so great. Your
world is a coward's world. It was built by men who are afraid."

Cappy choked. "You lie!"

"We have read your minds, earthmen," Chomby said. "We understand the
civilization from the mental pictures you carry in your minds. You have
great brains, but skilled as they are they are nothing in comparison
with ours. It was not your brain that made your world, but your love
of security. You feared wild beasts, so you killed them. You feared
hunger, so you stored food. You built weapons to defend yourself
against enemies. You sought out new worlds in fleeing from dangers of
the old. If your race had not known fear, it would have never done
these things."

"Men died to win that security," Cappy replied. "That wasn't cowardice,
was it?"

"They died fighting, which meant that they hoped to win. Their chance
of victory was more attractive than the insecurity that would come
with defeat," Chomby replied. "My people wish to keep you here. We
want to learn more about the emotion called fear that has made your
civilization so great."

"You'll never keep us!" growled Cappy. His hand automatically touched
the gun on his shoulder.

"That is the fear I speak of," Chomby said. "You would rather die than
be a prisoner. In a different way Terryhall has the same emotion. But
he does not risk so recklessly. He would rather avoid the situation
that makes fighting necessary. He is a brave man, too, Cappyupjohn, but
in a different way."

"He's yellow!" Cappy said vehemently. "He's worse than no help at all."

The earthmen rested, but they were not left alone. Chomby seemed
always to be near. Although Chomby insisted the earthmen were not
prisoners, he made it plain they would not be allowed to leave for a
time.

"We must study you," he said. "In turn, you may study us."

"I'm warning you, Chomby," Cappy roared. "We'll stand just so much of
this thing. We'll stay until we've studied you enough, but when we want
to go, we're going--or we'll die trying."

"That time is not here," Chomby said, wrinkling his lips again.
