
A transformation occurred in front of the row of caves in the basalt
cliff. Windbreaks appeared in the openings in the wall. Rude machines
were set up to build houses of stone and covered passages from cave to
cave. From the fibrous ferns Terry constructed rude looms for weaving
cloth. Stone mills for grinding the pulpy fruit of the Mercurian trees
into flour were designed.

How long the two earthmen had been prisoners on Mercury they had no way
of telling, for there was neither night nor day, nor seasons in the
twilight zone. But the Earth had disappeared over the south horizon
and reappeared in the north and Cappy estimated that two-thirds of the
Mercurian year of 88 days had passed.

"We won't be here another year," Terry said.

Cappy snorted. "I wouldn't bet."

"They're getting careless," Terry pointed out. "They used to have a
dozen men guarding us day and night. If we even got a little too far
away from the village, we'd be shoved back. Now only one Zombie is
guarding us. We're allowed to go almost anywhere, except near the
spaceship."

"They read our minds, so they're always two jumps ahead of us, Terry.
No. The principle of brains over brawn can't be beaten. We're licked."

"I'm not," Terry announced. "Once you called me a coward--you said I
was yellow. But a coward isn't the man who is afraid, it's the man
that lets fear get the upperhand. You're being a coward now, Cappy.
You're admitting that Chomby and his pals have the Injun sign on us.
I'm not admitting it. It isn't brains that makes men the rulers of nine
planets, and it isn't fear. Man has something else that gives him a
physiological edge. I'm going to find out what that is. When we find
it, we'll be free men again."

"When you find it, the Mercurians will know. They'll be ready to keep
us from using the weapon--whatever it is--before we know we've got it."

"Some day we'll have a chance. Some day we'll have a chance to slug our
guard and get back to the spaceship--"

Terry paused. He looked at the dozing Mercurian at the mouth of the
cave. Even as Terry looked the Mercurian roused out of his sleep. The
thought thread had roused the guard from a deep slumber.

"Now!" Terry yelled. "Now's our chance!"

Terry sprang. The guard tried to seize the stone club at his side, but
his clumsy hand was not made for swift action. Terry was on him before
the guard could send out a mental alarm and the young earthman's fist
crashed against the base of the guard's skull.

Terrestrial muscles, built for a heavier force of gravity, delivered
a sledgehammer blow. The guard toppled forward. Terry leaped over the
figure and darted into the open.

Another figure rose before Terry, but again Terry's fist smashed.

Cappy was beside Terry now and together they raced toward the path that
led in the direction of the spaceship.

"They'll follow us!" Cappy said. "They can trail us by our thoughts. If
we miss the ship and have to double back, we'll run into them."

"We won't miss!" Terry said.
