
The sudden formulation of the escape plan had been too quick for even
the Mercurian brains to block. Terry and Cappy were racing into the
forest of ferns far ahead of their pursuers. The coordinated muscles
of the earthmen were far more capable of traveling swiftly than those
of the Mercurians behind and sounds of pursuit grew fainter in the
distance.

But Terry knew that these creatures were dogged. They would follow
until the spaceship's rockets blasted loose from the planet.

"Remember," Terry whispered, "don't act on any set plan. Don't plan
what you'll do when you meet 'em. If you do they'll be prepared for it.
Act on impulse, before they know what you intend to do."

"I'll remember," Cappy panted.

Was it impulse that made terrestrials the masters of the universe?
Terry wondered. It hardly seemed logical, yet impulse had given them
their first chance of freedom. But impulse might lead them astray.
First thoughts are not always the best thoughts. True enough, man had
made some strides by accident, but far more of his greatest discoveries
and most useful inventions had been the result of years of labor and
careful planning. No, it wasn't impulse. Some other weapon had to be
used to defeat the Mercurians decisively. Terry and Cappy might escape
through luck, but some day there would be a final, decisive battle
that would employ the one thing that gave man an advantage over the
semi-human monsters of the first planet.

Terry hoped he could discover that weapon now.

They had been over the route to the spaceship three times. Once in
company with Chomby on their first trip to the Mercurian village. They
had returned in company with a guard and come back again later.

Terry had noted a few landmarks and now he began to spot them again. A
curious-shaped rock; a spring of moulten metal; a deep fissure in the
soil.

But as they traveled toward the sun's corona the air grew warmer.
Vegetation became profuse and the trail was more difficult to find. But
Cappy had kept his eyes open, too. Between them they made their way,
slower and slower.

Suddenly Terry stopped. An icy finger had passed over his brain. A
wordless thought flashed into his consciousness.

"This is Chomby, Terryhall. Go back, or you will be unmercifully
killed."

Cappy looked at Terry. The same thought had flashed through his brain.

"I am ahead of you, earthmen. I am waiting in front of the spaceship.
In my hands I hold a flourobeam gun. You cannot pass me, earthmen!"

Cappy groaned.

"They're still two jumps ahead, Terry! They've outfigured us again.
They knew we might get away by accident. So they put Chomby out here to
intercept us and he's armed with our weapons!"

Terry was afraid. He knew the power of a flourobeam. He'd seen it
blast rocks into powder and he knew that a man could never survive its
charge. One blast from the gun could wipe out all trace of Terry and
Cappy.

Terry's face paled. Then, suddenly, he moved forward.

"Come on, Cappy! You said I was yellow once. Let's see who's yellow
now!"

"But that gun! This isn't being brave! It's foolhardy. The better part
of valor is knowing when you're licked."

"Come on," Terry said, moving ahead.

"You're a fool, Terry," Cappy said. "But you've got guts! Now listen to
reason!"

But Terry would not listen. He moved forward. Cappy, sweating, came
following.

"It's suicide!" cried the older man.
