
In the center of a clearing stood the spaceship. The streaks of the
corona revealed a figure, huge, hideous and ape-like, standing before
the locks.

It was Chomby, holding the flourobeam gun, aiming at the two
terrestrials who emerged from the forest.

"If you come closer, I'll shoot!" It was a thought, not a voice, that
flashed toward the men, but the words were as clear as if Chomby had
spoken.

"We're licked, Terry!" Cappy said. "I'll surrender."

Slowly Cappy's hands went over his head.

"And what about you, Terryhall?"

Terry stood in the clearing, looking at the Mercurian. The young man's
face was pale and green beneath the corona glow.

"This is a war of the worlds, Chomby," he said. "It's a fight between
your race and mine. It's a Waterloo for one of us."

"You haven't a chance, Terryhall. You know the power of this gun."

Terry's lips tightened into a thin, straight line. His body crouched
for an instant and then he sprang. The terrestrial muscles sent him
shooting toward Chomby. His feet touched the ground again, and like
steel springs he shot forward a second time.

Chomby's fingers tightened on the trigger of the weapon. They seemed to
twitch.

Cappy closed his eyes.

An inhuman scream rent the Mercurian air. But the gun did not go off.

Cappy opened his eyes to see Terry and the monster rolling on the
ground. Terry's fingers were closed about the Mercurian's throat.
Chomby struggled feebly, and then lay still.

Terry rose, picked up the gun and motioned to Cappy.

"Put down your hands and start moving your legs. Get into those locks
before the rest of them get here!"

Cappy's jaw worked up and down, but words did not come from his throat.
Somehow he moved. He ran into the locks and a moment later he was at
the controls.

"Let 'er go!" Terry said.

Cappy, still speechless, pressed the charger. The rockets roared. The
machine lurched skyward and Mercury was left behind.

"What happened?" Cappy asked.

"I just remembered that when we were last carrying the guns we had the
safety catches on. The catches are released with the thumb. Chomby
couldn't do it! He couldn't have shot me, even though he wanted to. The
safety catches are such a small piece of the flourobeam mechanism that
we never think of them. Chomby didn't have a chance to read our minds
about the safety catch until it was too late."

"Terry," Cappy said. "I'll take back everything I said about you being
yellow. You've got guts! More than I have, Terry."

"Guts? Hell, Cappy, I was scared to death every second."



