
This was the first and perhaps most important incident in his history.
It was the acorn from which sprouted that large and aberrant oak-tree
that was Achilles Maravain.

The next important incident--a scene perhaps even more diverting than
the last--was the Lincoln Heights scene. As the odds are against it
that the reader of this is either an archeologist or some pervertedly
informed devotee of ancient Los Angeles topography, it is excusable to
mention that Lincoln Heights was the jail of the city, an institution
comparable in purpose to our modern concentration camps, but differing
in that it was merely a squat, few-story cement structure abundantly
furnished with steel bars, locks, chains, gyves, paraphernalia, and
policemen. Its architecture was thus ideal for Achilles' purposes. His
purposes being to imprison the prison, purposes in which he succeeded.

His remarkable feat first manifested itself when Sergeant Leery
crashed titanically into nothingness. Not actual nothingness--as was
evidenced by its palpability--but a substance that, for all practical
purposes, was nonexistent; all practical purposes that is except that
of preventing exit or entry in regards to the Lincoln Heights jail.
Sergeant Leery withdrew his nose a few paces, vigorously rubbing that
injured member, and stared quizzically at this absurd tangibility. He
stared for a long and ponderous time and then began shouting. Minions
of the law popped miraculously into view at this point, as if conjured
there by the magic of Leery's stentorian voice. Miraculously they
popped and popping, equally miraculously popped no more. The invisible
barrier restrained them; it framed their popping faces, their popping
eyes. It kept them within the building, sealing the doors, the windows,
the walls. It was, in fact a prison; Achilles Maravain had imprisoned
the prison.

Had he stopped there, there's a shade of a ghost's super-attenuated
chance that all might have been forgotten, except perhaps by the
infuriated gendarmerie and prisoners who were left permanently to their
own devices within the Lincoln Heights jail. But Achilles didn't stop.
He visited the First Street Headquarters Jail and imprisoned it. He
visited all the jails. Likewise the insane asylums and the hospitals.
Personal appearance tour, it was; an interstate tour. He went to Salt
Lake City and there gave a repeat performance. Jails, hospitals, etc.
Thence to Denver; thence to Topeka; thence to Kansas City. Followed by
St. Louis. Followed by Indianapolis. And on all the way to the East
Coast.

It is not to be supposed that he was uncontested in this progression.
Very much to the contrary. He was shot at. Often and with the utmost
accuracy was he fired upon. Apparently, however, with no effect for he
seemed invulnerable.

Not elusive was our Achilles, not wily, not adroit. Not even clever.
He was merely invulnerable and clumsily so to boot. He would wade into
a mass of stalwart police or soldiers--the militia tried cannons on
him--and projectiles would simply bounce away from him. They would
explode in the conventional manner. Only no fragments or concussion
waves apparently could reach him. After this, the opposition would be
scattered like the proverbial chaff.

It was a melee, a very horrifying and immensely entertaining mess.
Chaos there was and wildness and fantasy and even fanaticism. Yes, even
the latter. This last was instanced the time a group of misdirected
fans of Achilles misconstrued him, and, in the belief that he was the
Almighty, surrounded him in the midst of the pursuit of one of his more
stirring enterprises. He misconstrued them, too. They still remain, so
far as is known, in the housing he provided their zeal.
