
Now we return to the beginning of the story. Not for the sake of
confusion, but merely to pick up a most important thread. Remember the
Camera Forum scene? And Los Angeles? Los Angeles, if you are following
the mood of this story, is mere dust and collapse by now. Nevertheless,
we return to the vanished metropolis and to the Forum, the three young
men of the FBI, and to the lost-looking scientist with the galvanometer
and other trivia--the scientist whom you probably never noticed, having
been lost in the spell of her. The lost-looking scientist was happy,
too.

His happiness lay in that he had come to a conclusion, one affecting
Achilles Maravain. His conclusion was that Maravain was scientifically
explainable. Not just his feats; not just the decimation he wrought
upon police; not just the prisons in which he enveloped prisons.
No--more than that--the works. Everything about Achilles Maravain--his
personality; his attitude toward life, love and literature--all down
to his very kneejerks.

First and most important of all, our Achilles had an inferiority
complex. Definitely. The proposition that anyone who had actually, with
reason, been called John Smith all his life did not have an inferiority
complex was fantastic. But the man's actions proved it beyond doubt: he
picked on criminals, insane, and the sick because he felt inferior to
them, and compensated thus. Amazing logic? Well, everyone thought so at
the time, although as you can see, it was really extraordinarily simple.

But, at the time, everyone was amazed, even the scientist himself.
He gloried in it, glowed and, entering further into the spirit and
tempo of his theories, babbled out point after telling point. Argued.
Philosophized. He quoted statistics about the ratio of invention to
the inferiority-complex and compared it with the results Achilles had
obtained. He proved that ultra-vibrational force-walls--this being
essentially what Achilles had developed for the demolition of law and
order and for the production of honestagawd, fool-proof, tamper-proof
prisons--were Machiavellian, Mephistophelian, and just plain hellish.
Why invent them, then, except to demonstrate a superiority the inventor
really didn't feel?

The scientist meditated further, brooded, calculated, grunted awhile
and then predicted--or, as he put it: prognosticated--that Achilles
would declare himself a dictator.

Which Achilles did.

In this, however, there was a flaw; here lay his weakness. Not in the
actual fact that he protested himself the greatest and wisest of men,
but that he attempted wiles. He didn't come out with it forthrightly;
he wasn't blunt as he had been with his interesting massacres. He
proved himself cagey, contemptible, striking the Humanitarian pose. He
was, he stated, producing all these absorbing newspaper stories for
man's own good. Or, rather, Man's. Man with a capital M. A document he
issued, long and scholarly. It reeked; it stank; it was crawling with
hypocrisy and shoddy diplomacy. He took some thirty thousand words
to indicate that pestilence, famine, and war was in existence. That
thieving, murder, and kindred rot was also in evidence. He dithered
about the general theme that this was horrible. Tediously he pedanted,
hedging around concerning the Perfect State, eventually coming out into
the open with his own private Perfect State plan. Revised and condensed
it still reeked. Get rid of all the misfits and criminals and the
insane. Prison up the squarepegs and breed them out. And then direct
democracy just as the Greeks had.

Apparently he had never heard of economics. No one had told him that
Greek democracy existed on the basis of a slave system. No one had told
him of other things that had either been thought of, worked out, or
had evolved according to the scientific laws concerning economics and
society since the time of the Greeks. Achilles Maravain was stuck on
Homeric Greek democracy--only he indicated that he, personally, would
be Democrat Number One.
