
Again we bewilder the reader with a thread from the beginning. Again
we return to the Los Angeles Camera Forum Scene. This time to call to
the mind of the elated reader that succulent item of femininity that
first claimed our attention with her sprightly uncovering of Achilles
Maravain as the seemingly innocuous John Smith.

We find Cecile Douve, as she is known to the intelligence services of
this and perhaps a few other countries, in a stinky little bedroom.
Again don't get ahead of the story; she is merely investigating. Not
engaged in active inquiry, if you follow me.

This stinky little bedroom, with massive volumes of a technical
nature, broken test tubes, and other rot and junk of a like nature
littering it, is the erstwhile bedroom of Achilles Maravain. He no
longer inhabits it, although we can linger nostalgically for a moment,
although we can sniff mystifiedly at the--peculiar--odors emanating
from the broken test tubes, although we can tinker with the gimcracks
and thingumbobs and machinery and no doubt shock ourselves into a
reckoning with Old Scratch.

In any case, Cecile Douve is here searching for a clue to the
whereabouts of Achilles. The scientist of the galvanometers is also
here. His name is Harold Boscoe, and he is a Ph. D. Together, Cecile
and the Ph. D. search and also engage in polite converse. They sniff
not, mystifiedly or otherwise; they linger not on anything nor brood
about the fact that perhaps here, in this very, very room was conceived
the diabolicism of the force-wall. No, they search and converse.

"It must not happen. The man is a maniac," postulates Cecile prettily,
then continues the efficient search.

"Honeybunch,"--evidently the poor egg has joined the clan of the
lovelorn--"it shall not. I shall find something to combat him and his
evil."

"Do you think you can do it, my pet?"

"Certainly. I'm a scientist, am I not? Just between you and me (and a
few governments: Auth. Note) I'm working on something already. I have a
magnificent conception that may well prove his downfall."

"Do you really think so? You're so wise--so--so marvelous."

"Do you really think so?"

"Yes," a pause, then in husky tones, "really."

Embraces, osculations, and speeches. At precisely the right moment,
when his devotion is white hot, she molds him and sends him back to
work.
