
At approximately this same time, there is going on a very important
meeting of various high and significant officials of the government:
the President, Vice President, Cabinet Members, House Committee on
Achilles Maravain, Senatorial Investigation Committee on Achilles
Maravain, the current successor to the Dies Committee, and the First
Lady. Hubbub, clamor, chaos. The authoritative voice of the President
lifts.

"Silence, please."

The Chairman of the House Committee on Achilles Maravain rises and
addresses the President. "Mr. President," (cough), "we are led to
believe that these are the facts of the case. There is (or are) a
person (or persons) calling himself (or themselves) Achilles Maravain,
who has been (or have been) imprisoning prisons, causing no end of
annoyance and embarrassment, and who has (or have) proclaimed what
purports to be the constitution of a new American state, founded after
the manner of our Grecian predecessors in the experiment of democracy.
The experiment of democracy, which, may I say, gentlemen" (voice
takes oratorical tones) "has fulfilled all the most rosy hopes and
expectations, which has turned a barren wilderness of thirteen original
states into the magnificence and resplendency of--"

"We are all aware of that, Mr. Ainsworth." The President's grimace
could rightly be termed sinister.

The Chairman sits down abruptly and the President continues. "In any
event, gentlemen, we are confronted by a profoundly serious situation,
coming as it is, at a time when we should bend every effort toward
preparing for a war against the Old World. This person (or persons)
known as Achilles Maravain is having a distressingly diverting effect
upon us when all energies from that--er, madman--in Europe. Beyond
doubt he is some pseudo-idealistic radical--perhaps an emissary of the
Federation. Whatever he is, he has no full cognizance of the extreme
gravity of our situation, and, as such will not assist us. Thus, he
(or they) must be destroyed. What might any of you gentlemen suggest
towards the speedy expedition of this destruction?"

The First Lady arises. "I'm not a gentleman," she simpers, "but--"

"Quite true. Sit down, please."

"Wait a moment. I have something to suggest. Perhaps you do not realize
it, but I am indirectly responsible for the uncovering of Achilles
Maravain, in Smith's clothing. It was one of my girls, Cecile Douve,
who did the job. And we--she in active duty, and I as her patron--are
continuing our efforts. As once she wormed her way into his affections,
so shall she do it again. As once she effectively uncovered him, so
shall she do a second time. I really promise you results, gentlemen.
Results."
