
And results she got. Results they were. The web, the power expended,
the intricacies of thought, the drive of five hundred individuals were
her results. The huge rolling mass of energy that was exhausted by five
hundred highly specialized and superbly trained and educated beings
was the result she directed against the insidious Mr. Maravain. And,
most important of all, one person named Cecile Douve. Four hundred and
ninety-nine engineers, scientists, technicians, and one little lump of
hotcha generally known as Cecile Douve.

"I love you," she said.

Achilles replied. "The last time I believed that, you called in the FBI
as witnesses to our mutual affection."

"I was mad, my darling. I didn't understand you." (Hushed, reverent
tones.) "Even then I felt violently attracted to you, to you as a man,
but your purposes and powers seemed so fearful ... I thought you were
a madman and myself a monster to love you. But now I know ... when I
read your wonderful proclamation, I realized how wrong I had been--how
gentle and idealistic you are. I understood then your purity and
realized the nobility of your aspirations.

"I love you."

She moved in for the clinch.

"It would only be fair to warn you," he replied, "that I still have
the force screen armoring me. Cuddling under these conditions would be
quite inadvisable."

She recoiled in a somewhat unamorous fashion.

"Still," he continued, "I love you, too. I don't want to trust you--but
I do. Don't look hopeful my dear--I don't completely. Just to a
certain, reasonable degree. So, here's what: if my noble aspirations
pan out, as I can't help but expect they will, I'll marry you. In the
meantime, we can be friends. We can conduct a pleasant, frolicky little
association, however--an entirely platonic one."

He sighed. "Would that Homer were alive today to write the story of
Achilles Maravain as it should be written. Will I have poets worthy of
me?"

This, she thought, could go on indefinitely. "How soon will it be?"
she broke in. "When will you succeed? Can you make it very soon, my
dearest?"

"It can't be any too soon for me, either, dewdrop--but restrain
yourself."

"I can't--oh, I can't!" she cried. Heavy breathing, then, in more
serious tones. "I know what to do. I have influence in Washington. I'll
arrange an audience for you with the President. With the President and
all of Congress. They'll see you."

"Nice of them, but I don't see the use of it."

"It might be of inestimable use, my darling. A direct impact of your
personality and honesty and drive should convince them. It would be
almost certain to convince them; they're only human, my dear. And
think of the time and trouble we can save if they are ready to give in
gracefully. Please!"

"Very well," he sighed. "I'll do it. Don't think for a moment I don't
suspect treachery, my pet, but after all, I am invincible. You know
that, I hope."
