
And on this note ends the reconciliation. Immediately followed by much
ado. Preparations while four hundred and ninety-nine engineers, etc.,
work in a veritable frenzy. And, out of their efforts and energy,
there grows an amphitheatre, large and capacious. Pretty and modern.
Beautiful.

This was to be the scene of the meeting. Here is to be decided the
fate of more than a hundred and thirty million people. Here is to be
expounded the rules and laws of a state founded on Grecian lines, on
the classic examples.

Here, on March 15.

Beware of the Ides of March, O Caesar.

Glorious, powerful, invincible Achilles Maravain comes to the
amphitheatre. Nowadays with the details and obscurities of the episode
in history shuffled into relative inconspicuity, one doesn't know
precisely how the cards fell or get the subtleties of the deal. Did
any soothsayers annoy our equivalent of Caesar on his route; did his
nonexistent Calpurnia dream gorily the night before; did lionesses
whelp in the streets, or did fierce, fiery warriors fight upon the
clouds "which drizzled blood upon the capital"? Gangway for Homer, or
even Shakespeare. Either of these two could have done justice to our
play.

In any case, Achilles ignored whatever omens there might have been and
came to the amphitheatre on March 15.

Cecile met him at the great, modern-looking portal and led him in,
introducing him to her benefactress, the First Lady, who, in turn
consummated the formalities with the President himself. Achilles
was very well-behaved throughout these presentations, conducting
himself with decorum and consideration for all the people who eyed
his much-publicized armor with especial dubiety. He was very pleased
with himself about the whole thing. All these key figures, these
obstructions to his philosophy, this destructible humanity, ponderous,
ripe so to speak for explosions and force walls--and he showing such
admirable restraint about it all. Indeed, he felt content. Restraint,
control, self-discipline--these his watch-words.

[Illustration: _She introduced him to the First Lady._]

The President didn't take him by the hand, the force wall
preventing--but he did the next best thing. He preceded him to the
raised dais in the centre of the amphitheatre and, from the spot,
delivered a fetching little introduction about which no more severe a
criticism can be applied than "superfluous." After this, Achilles began
his talk.

Here also is the ubiquitous scientist of the lost-looking face.
Apparently a member, if not a chieftain, of the clan of the four
hundred and ninety-nine technicians. He is looking remarkably heroic at
the moment. Almost gigantic--in a spiritual sort of way.

He turns and throws a switch.

And, in the amphitheatre, a globular hemisphere descends upon the dais
supporting Achilles Maravain, immediately transforming him into a
raging Achilles. A half-spheroid, transparent, glassy, but immensely
malleable and tensile and strong.
