
Out of the corners of his eyes, Orne saw more shadows dropping to the
mud around him. The sled shifted as someone climbed onto the load behind
the cab. The someone scuttled agilely for a moment.

The native climbed down to the cab's side step, opened the door. The
rifle was held at the ready. Again, the lipless mouth formed Galactese
words: "What do you carry in this ... vehicle?"

"The equipment every R&R field man uses to help the people of a
rediscovered planet improve themselves." Orne nodded at the rifle.
"Would you mind pointing that weapon some other direction? It makes me
nervous."

The gun muzzle remained unwaveringly on Orne's middle. The native's
mouth opened, revealing long canines. "Do we not look strange to you?"

"I take it there's been a heavy mutational variation in the humanoid
norm on this planet," said Orne. "What is it? Hard radiation?"

No answer.

"It doesn't really make any difference, of course," said Orne. "I'm here
to help you."

"I am Tanub, High Path Chief of the Grazzi," said the native. "I decide
who is to help."

Orne swallowed.

"Where do you go?" demanded Tanub.

"I was hoping to go to your city. Is it permitted?"

A long pause while the vertical-slit pupils of Tanub's eyes expanded and
contracted. "It is permitted."

Stetson's voice came through the hidden speaker: _"All bets off. We're
coming in after you. That Mark XX is the final straw. It means they have
the_ Delphinus _for sure!"_

Orne touched his throat. _"No! Give me a little more time!"_

_"Why?"_

_"I have a hunch about these creatures."_

_"What is it?"_

_"No time now. Trust me."_

Another long pause in which Orne and Tanub continued to study each
other. Presently, Stetson said: _"O.K. Go ahead as planned. But find out
where the_ Delphinus _is! If we get that back we pull their teeth."_

"Why do you keep touching your throat?" demanded Tanub.

"I'm nervous," said Orne. "Guns always make me nervous."

The muzzle lowered slightly.

"Shall we continue on to your city?" asked Orne. He wet his lips with
his tongue. The cab light on Tanub's face was giving the Gienahn an
eerie sinister look.

"We can go soon," said Tanub.

"Will you join me inside here?" asked Orne. "There's a passenger seat
right behind me."

Tanub's eyes moved catlike: right, left. "Yes." He turned, barked an
order into the jungle gloom, then climbed in behind Orne.

"When do we go?" asked Orne.

"The great sun will be down soon," said Tanub. "We can continue as soon
as Chiranachuruso rises."

"Chiranachuruso?"

"Our satellite ... our moon," said Tanub.

"It's a beautiful word," said Orne. "Chiranachuruso."

"In our tongue it means: The Limb of Victory," said Tanub. "By its light
we will continue."

Orne turned, looked back at Tanub. "Do you mean to tell me that you can
see by what light gets down here through those trees?"

"Can you not see?" asked Tanub.

"Not without the headlights."

"Our eyes differ," said Tanub. He bent toward Orne, peered. The vertical
slit pupils of his eyes expanded, contracted. "You are the same as the
... others."

"Oh, on the _Delphinus_?"

Pause. "Yes."

Presently, a greater gloom came over the jungle, bringing a sudden
stillness to the wild life. There was a chittering commotion from the
natives in the trees around the sled. Tanub shifted behind Orne.

"We may go now," he said. "Slowly ... to stay behind my ... scouts."

"Right." Orne eased the sled forward around an obstructing root.
