
Orne stopped the sled. In the moonlight, he could see armed Gienahns all
around. The buttressed pedestal of one of the buildings loomed directly
ahead. It looked taller than had the scout cruiser in its jungle landing
circle.

Tanub leaned close to Orne's shoulder. "We have not deceived you, have
we, Orne?"

"Huh? What do you mean?"

"You have recognized that we are not mutated members of your race."

Orne swallowed. Into his ears came Stetson's voice: _"Better admit it."_

"That's true," said Orne.

"I like you, Orne," said Tanub. "You shall be one of my slaves. You will
teach me many things."

"How did you capture the _Delphinus_?" asked Orne.

"You know that, too?"

"You have one of their rifles," said Orne.

"Your race is no match for us, Orne ... in cunning, in strength, in the
prowess of the mind. Your ship landed to repair its tubes. Very inferior
ceramics in those tubes."

Orne turned, looked at Tanub in the dim glow of the cab light. "Have you
heard about the I-A, Tanub?"

"I-A? What is that?" There was a wary tenseness in the Gienahn's figure.
His mouth opened to reveal the long canines.

"You took the _Delphinus_ by treachery?" asked Orne.

"They were simple fools," said Tanub. "We are smaller, thus they thought
us weaker." The Mark XX's muzzle came around to center on Orne's
stomach. "You have not answered my question. What is the I-A?"

"I am of the I-A," said Orne. "Where've you hidden the _Delphinus_?"

"In the place that suits us best," said Tanub. "In all our history there
has never been a better place."

"What do you plan to do with it?" asked Orne.

"Within a year we will have a copy with our own improvements. After
that--"

"You intend to start a war?" asked Orne.

"In the jungle the strong slay the weak until only the strong remain,"
said Tanub.

"And then the strong prey upon each other?" asked Orne.

"That is a quibble for women," said Tanub.

"It's too bad you feel that way," said Orne. "When two cultures meet
like this they tend to help each other. What have you done with the crew
of the _Delphinus_?"

"They are slaves," said Tanub. "Those who still live. Some resisted.
Others objected to teaching us what we want to know." He waved the gun
muzzle. "You will not be that foolish, will you, Orne?"

"No need to be," said Orne. "I've another little lesson to teach you: I
already know where you've hidden the _Delphinus_."

_"Go, boy!"_ hissed Stetson. _"Where is it?"_

"Impossible!" barked Tanub.

"It's on your moon," said Orne. "Darkside. It's on a mountain on the
darkside of your moon."

Tanub's eyes dilated, contracted. "You read minds?"

"The I-A has no need to read minds," said Orne. "We rely on superior
mental prowess."

_"The marines are on their way,"_ hissed Stetson. _"We're coming in to
get you. I'm going to want to know how you guessed that one."_

"You are a weak fool like the others," gritted Tanub.

"It's too bad you formed your opinion of us by observing only the low
grades of the R&R," said Orne.

_"Easy, boy,"_ hissed Stetson. _"Don't pick a fight with him now.
Remember, his race is arboreal. He's probably as strong as an ape."_

"I could kill you where you sit!" grated Tanub.

"You write finish for your entire planet if you do," said Orne. "I'm not
alone. There are others listening to every word we say. There's a ship
overhead that could split open your planet with one bomb--wash it with
molten rock. It'd run like the glass you use for your buildings."

"You are lying!"

"We'll make you an offer," said Orne. "We don't really want to
exterminate you. We'll give you limited membership in the Galactic
Federation until you prove you're no menace to us."

_"Keep talking,"_ hissed Stetson. _"Keep him interested."_

"You dare insult me!" growled Tanub.

"You had better believe me," said Orne. "We--"

Stetson's voice interrupted him: _"Got it, Orne! They caught the_
Delphinus _on the ground right where you said it'd be! Blew the tubes
off it. Marines now mopping up."_

"It's like this," said Orne. "We already have recaptured the
_Delphinus_." Tanub's eyes went instinctively skyward. "Except for the
captured armament you still hold, you obviously don't have the weapons
to meet us," continued Orne. "Otherwise, you wouldn't be carrying that
rifle off the _Delphinus_."

"If you speak the truth, then we shall die bravely," said Tanub.

"No need for you to die," said Orne.

"Better to die than be slaves," said Tanub.

"We don't need slaves," said Orne. "We--"

"I cannot take the chance that you are lying," said Tanub. "I must kill
you now."
