

It was a bright morning in Old Bond Street, and fat little Mr. Aeneas,
the fashionable mask-maker, was sunning himself at the door of his shop.
His window was lined as usual with all kinds of masks--beautiful masks
with pink cheeks, and absurd masks with protuberant chins; curious
Trpocrctiira [Greek: prosopa] copied from old tragic models; masks of
paper for children, of fine silk for ladies, and of leather for working
men; bearded or beardless, gilded or waxen (most of them, indeed, were
waxen), big or little masks. And in the middle of this vain galaxy hung
the presentment of a Cyclops' face, carved cunningly of gold, with a
great sapphire in its brow.

The sun gleamed brightly on the window and on the bald head and
varnished shoes of fat little Mr. Aeneas. It was too early for any
customers to come, and Mr. Aeneas seemed to be greatly enjoying his
leisure in the fresh air. He smiled complacently as he stood there, and
well he might, for he was a great artist and was patronized by several
crowned heads and not a few of the nobility. Only the evening before,
Mr. Brummell had come into his shop and ordered a light summer mask,
wishing to evade for a time the jealous vigilance of Lady Otterton. It
pleased Mr. Aeneas to think that his art made him the recipient of so
many high secrets. He smiled as he thought of the titled spendthrifts
who, at this moment, _perdus_ behind his masterpieces, passed unscathed
among their creditors. He was the secular confessor of his day, always
able to give absolution. A unique position!

The street was as quiet as a village street. At an open window over the
way, a handsome lady, wrapped in a muslin _peignoir_, sat sipping her
cup of chocolate. It was La Signora Gambogi, and Mr. Aeneas made her
many elaborate bows. This morning, however, her thoughts seemed far
away, and she did not notice the little man's polite efforts. Nettled at
her negligence, Mr. Aeneas was on the point of retiring into his shop,
when he saw Lord George Hell hastening up the street, with a posy of
wild flowers in his hand.

"His Lordship is up betimes!" he said to himself. "An early visit to La
Signora, I suppose."

Not so, however. His Lordship came straight towards the mask-shop. Once
he glanced up at Signora's window and looked deeply annoyed when he saw
her sitting there. He came quickly into the shop.

"I want the mask of a saint," he said.

"Mask of a saint, my Lord? Certainly!" said Mr. Aeneas, briskly. "With
or without halo? His Grace the Bishop of St. Aldred's always wears his
with a halo? Your Lordship does not wish for a halo? Certainly! If your
Lordship will allow me to take his measurement----"

"I must have the mask to-day," Lord George said. "Have you none
ready-made?"

"Ah, I see. Required for immediate wear," murmured Mr. Aeneas,
dubiously. "You see, your Lordship takes a rather large size." And he
looked at the floor.

"Julius!" he cried suddenly to his assistant, who was putting the
finishing touches to a mask of Barbarossa which the young king of
Zuerremburg was to wear at his coronation the following week. "Julius! Do
you remember the saint's mask we made for Mr. Ripsby, a couple of years
ago?"

"Yes, sir," said the boy. "It's stored upstairs."

"I thought so," replied Mr. Aeneas. "Mr. Ripsby only had it on hire.
Step upstairs, Julius, and bring it down. I fancy it is just what your
Lordship would wish. Spiritual, yet handsome."

"Is it a mask that is even as a mirror of true love?" Lord George asked,
gravely.

"It was made precisely as such," the mask-maker answered. "In fact it
was made for Mr. Ripsby to wear at his silver wedding, and was very
highly praised by the relatives of Mrs. Ripsby. Will your Lordship step
into my little room?"

So Mr. Aeneas led the way to his parlour behind the shop. He was elated
by the distinguished acquisition to his _clientele_, for hitherto Lord
George had never patronized his business. He bustled round his parlour
and insisted that his Lordship should take a chair and a pinch from his
snuff-box, while the saint's mask was being found.

Lord George's eye travelled along the rows of framed letters from great
personages, which lined the walls. He did not see them though, for he
was calculating the chances that La Gambogi had not observed him as he
entered the mask-shop. He had come down so early that he had thought she
would still be abed. That sinister old proverb, _La jalouse se leve de
bonne heure_, rose in his memory. His eye fell unconsciously on a large,
round mask made of dull silver, with the features of a human face traced
over its surface in faint filigree.

"Your Lordship wonders what mask that is?" chirped Mr. Aeneas, tapping
the thing with one of his little finger nails.

"What is that mask?" Lord George murmured, absently.

"I ought not to divulge, my Lord," said the mask-maker. "But I know your
Lordship would respect a professional secret, a secret of which I am
pardonable proud. This," he said, "is a mask for the sun-god, Apollo,
whom heaven bless!"

"You astound me," said Lord George.

"Of no less a person, I do assure you. When Jupiter, his father, made
him lord of the day, Apollo craved that he might sometimes see the
doings of mankind in the hours of night time. Jupiter granted so
reasonable a request, and when next Apollo had passed over the sky and
hidden in the sea, and darkness had fallen on all the world, he raised
his head above the waters that he might watch the doings of mankind in
the hours of night time. But," Mr. Aeneas added, with a smile, "his
bright countenance made light all the darkness. Men rose from their
couches or from their revels, wondering that day was so soon come, and
went to their work. And Apollo sank weeping into the sea. 'Surely,' he
cried, 'it is a bitter thing that I alone, of all the gods, may not
watch the world in the hours of night time. For in those hours, as I am
told, men are even as gods are. They spill the wine and are wreathed
with roses. Their daughters dance in the light of torches. They laugh to
the sound of flutes. On their long couches they lie down at last, and
sleep comes to kiss their eyelids. None of these things may I see.
Wherefore the brightness of my beauty is even as a curse to me, and I
would put it from me.' And as he wept, Vulcan said to him, 'I am not the
least cunning of the gods, nor the least pitiful. Do not weep, for I
will give you that which shall end your sorrow. Nor need you put from
you the brightness of your beauty.' And Vulcan made a mask of dull
silver and fastened it across his brother's face. And that night, thus
masked, the sun-god rose from the sea and watched the doings of mankind
in the night time. Nor any longer were men abashed by his bright beauty,
for it was hidden by the mask of silver. Those whom he had so often seen
haggard over their daily tasks, he saw feasting now and wreathed with
red roses. He heard them laugh to the sound of flutes, as their
daughters danced in the red light of torches. And when at length they
lay down upon their soft couches and sleep kissed their eyelids, he sank
back into the sea and hid his mask under a little rock in the bed of the
sea. Nor have men ever known that Apollo watches them often in the night
time, but fancied it to be some pale goddess."

"I myself have always thought it was Diana," said Lord George Hell.

"An error, my Lord!" said Mr. Aeneas, with a smile. "_Ecce signum!_" And
he tapped the mask of dull silver.

"Strange!" said his Lordship. "And pray how comes it that Apollo has
ordered of _you_ this new mask?"

"He has always worn twelve new masks every year, inasmuch as no mask can
endure for many nights the near brightness of his face, before which
even a mask of the best and purest silver soon tarnishes and wears away.
Centuries ago, Vulcan tired of making so very many masks. And so Apollo
sent Mercury down to Athens, to the shop of Phoron, a Phoenician
mask-maker of great skill. Phoron made Apollo's masks for many years,
and every month Mercury came to his shop for a new one. When Phoron
died, another artist was chosen, and, when _he_ died, another, and so on
through all the ages of the world. Conceive, my Lord, my pride and
pleasure when Mercury flew into my shop, one night last year, and made
me Apollo's warrant-holder. It is the highest privilege that any
mask-maker can desire. And when I die," said Mr. Aeneas, with some
emotion, "Mercury will confer my post upon another."

"And do they pay you for your labour?" Lord George asked.

Mr. Aeneas drew himself up to his full height, such as it was. "In
Olympus, my Lord," he said, "they have no currency. For any mask-maker,
so high a privilege is its own reward. Yet the sun-god is generous. He
shines more brightly into my shop than into any other. Nor does he
suffer his rays to melt any waxen mask made by me, until its wearer doff
it and it be done with."

At this moment Julius came in with the Ripsby mask. "I must ask your
Lordship's pardon, for having kept you so long," pleaded Mr. Aeneas.
"But I have a large store of old masks and they are imperfectly
catalogued."

It certainly was a beautiful mask, with its smooth pink cheeks and
devotional brows. It was made of the finest wax. Lord George took it
gingerly in his hands and tried it on his face. It fitted _a merveille_.

"Is the expression exactly as your Lordship would wish?" asked Mr.
Aeneas.

Lord George laid it on the table and studied it intently. "I wish it
were more as a perfect mirror of true love," he said at length. "It is
too calm, too contemplative."

"Easily remedied!" said Mr. Aeneas. Selecting a fine pencil, he deftly
drew the eyebrows closer to each other. With a brush steeped in some
scarlet pigment, he put a fuller curve upon the lips. And behold! it
was the mask of a saint who loves dearly. Lord George's heart throbbed
with pleasure.

"And for how long does your Lordship wish to wear it?" asked Mr. Aeneas.

"I must wear it until I die," replied Lord George.

"Kindly be seated then, I pray," rejoined the little man. "For I must
apply the mask with great care. Julius, you will assist me!"

So, while Julius heated the inner side of the waxen mask over a little
lamp, Mr. Aeneas stood over Lord George gently smearing his features
with some sweet-scented pomade. Then he took the mask and powdered its
inner side, quite soft and warm now, with a fluffy puff. "Keep quite
still, for one instant," he said, and clapped the mask firmly on his
Lordship's upturned face. So soon as he was sure of its perfect
adhesion, he took from his assistant's hand a silver file and a little
wooden spatula, with which he proceeded to pare down the edge of the
mask, where it joined the neck and ears. At length, all traces of the
"join" were obliterated. It remained only to arrange the curls of the
lordly wig over the waxen brow.

The disguise was done. When Lord George looked through the eyelets of
his mask into the mirror that was placed in his hand, he saw a face that
was saintly, itself a mirror of true love. How wonderful it was! He felt
his past was a dream. He felt he was a new man indeed. His voice went
strangely through the mask's parted lips, as he thanked Mr. Aeneas.

"Proud to have served your Lordship," said that little worthy, pocketing
his fee of fifty guineas, while he bowed his customer out.

When he reached the street, Lord George nearly uttered a curse through
those sainted lips of his. For there, right in his way, stood La
Gambogi, with a small pink parasol. She laid her hand upon his sleeve
and called him softly by his name. He passed her by without a word.
Again she confronted him.

"I cannot let go so handsome a lover," she laughed, "even though he
spurn me! Do not spurn me, George. Give me your posy of wild flowers.
Why, you never looked so lovingly at me in all your life!"

"Madam," said Lord George, sternly, "I have not the honour to know you."
And he passed on.

The lady gazed after her lost lover with the blackest hatred in her
eyes. Presently she beckoned across the road to a certain spy.

And the spy followed him.



