

Lord George, greatly agitated, had turned into Piccadilly. It was
horrible to have met this garish embodiment of his past on the very
threshold of his fair future. The mask-maker's elevating talk about the
gods, followed by the initiative ceremony of his saintly mask, had
driven all discordant memories from his love-thoughts of Jenny Mere. And
then to be met by La Gambogi! It might be that, after his stern words,
she would not seek to cross his path again. Surely she would not seek to
mar his sacred love. Yet, he knew her dark Italian nature, her passion
of revenge. What was the line in Virgil? _Spretaeque_--something. Who
knew but that somehow, sooner or later, she might come between him and
his love?

He was about to pass Lord Barrymore's mansion. Count Karoloff and Mr.
FitzClarence were lounging in one of the lower windows. Would they know
him behind his mask? Thank God! they did not. They merely laughed as he
went by, and Mr. FitzClarence cried in a mocking voice, "Sing us a hymn,
Mr. Whatever-your-saint's-name is!" The mask, then, at least, was
perfect. Jenny Mere would not know him. He need fear no one but La
Gambogi. But would not she betray his secret? He sighed.

That night he was going to visit Garble's and to declare his love to the
little actress. He never doubted that she would love him for his saintly
face. Had she not said, "That man whose face is wonderful as are the
faces of the saints, to him I will give my true love"? She could not
say now that his face was as a tarnished mirror of love. She would smile
on him. She would be his bride. But would La Gambogi be at Garble's?

The operette would not be over before ten that night. The clock in Hyde
Park Gate told him it was not yet ten--ten of the morning. Twelve whole
hours to wait before he could fall at Jenny's feet! "I cannot spend that
time in this place of memories," he thought. So he hailed a yellow
cabriolet and bade the jarvey drive him out to the village of
Kensington.

When they came to the little wood where he had been but a few hours ago,
Lord George dismissed the jarvey. The sun, that had risen as he stood
there thinking of Jenny, shone down on his altered face, but, though it
shone very fiercely, it did not melt his waxen features. The old
woodman, who had shown him his way, passed by under a load of faggots
and did not know him. He wandered among the trees. It was a lovely wood.

Presently he came to the bank of that tiny stream, the Ken, which still
flowed there in those days. On the moss of its bank he lay down and let
its water ripple over his hand. Some bright pebble glistened under the
surface, and, as he peered down at it, he saw in the stream the
reflection of his mask. A great shame filled him that he should so cheat
the girl he loved. Behind that fair mask there would still be the evil
face that had repelled her. Could he be so base as to decoy her into
love of that most ingenious deception? He was filled with a great pity
for her, with a hatred of himself. And yet, he argued, was the mask
indeed a mean trick? Surely it was a secret symbol of his true
repentance and of his true love. His face was evil, because his life had
been evil. He had seen a gracious girl, and of a sudden his very soul
had changed. His face alone was the same as it had been. It was not just
that his face should be evil still.

There was the faint sound of some one sighing, Lord George looked up,
and there, on the further bank, stood Jenny Mere, watching him. As their
eyes met, she blushed and hung her head. She looked like nothing but a
tall child as she stood there, with her straight limp frock of lilac
cotton and her sunburnt straw bonnet. He dared not speak; he could only
gaze at her.

Suddenly there perched astride the bough of a tree, at her side, that
winged and laughing child in whose hand was a bow. Before Lord George
could warn her, an arrow had flashed down and vanished in her heart, and
Cupid had flown away.

No cry of pain did she utter, but stretched out her arms to her lover,
with a glad smile. He leapt quite lightly over the little stream and
knelt at her feet. It seemed more fitting that he should kneel before
the gracious thing he was unworthy of. But she, knowing only that his
face was as the face of a great saint, bent over him and touched him
with her hand.

"Surely," she said, "you are that good man for whom I have waited.
Therefore do not kneel to me, but rise and suffer me to kiss your hand.
For my love of you is lowly, and my heart is all yours."

But he answered, looking up into her fond eyes, "Nay, you are a queen,
and I must needs kneel in your presence."

But she shook her head wistfully, and she knelt down, also, in her
tremulous ecstasy, before him. And as they knelt, the one to the other,
the tears came into her eyes, and he kissed her. Though the lips that
he pressed to her lips were only waxen, he thrilled with happiness, in
that mimic kiss. He held her close to him in his arms, and they were
silent in the sacredness of their love.

From his breast he took the posy of wild flowers that he had gathered.

"They are for you," he whispered. "I gathered them for you hours ago, in
this wood. See! They are not withered."

But she was perplexed by his words and said to him, blushing, "How was
it for me that you gathered them, though you had never seen me?"

"I gathered them for you," he answered, "knowing I should soon see you.
How was it that you, who had never seen me, yet waited for me?"

"I waited, knowing I should see you at last." And she kissed the posy
and put it at her breast.

And they rose from their knees and went into the wood, walking hand in
hand. As they went, he asked the names of the flowers that grew under
their feet. "These are primroses," she would say. "Did you not know? And
these are ladies'-feet, and these forget-me-nots. And that white flower,
climbing up the trunks of the trees and trailing down so prettily from
the branches, is called Astyanax. These little yellow things are
buttercups. Did you not know?" And she laughed.

"I know the names of none of the flowers," he said.

She looked up into his face and said timidly, "Is it worldly and wrong
of me to have loved the flowers? Ought I to have thought more of those
higher things that are unseen?"

His heart smote him. He could not answer her simplicity.

"Surely the flowers are good, and did you not gather this posy for me?"
she pleaded. "But if you do not love them, I must not. And I will try to
forget their names. For I must try to be like you in all things."

"Love the flowers always," he said. "And teach me to love them."

So she told him all about the flowers, how some grew very slowly and
others bloomed in a night; how clever the convolvulus was at climbing,
and how shy violets were, and why honeycups had folded petals. She told
him of the birds, too, that sang in the wood, how she knew them all by
their voices. "That is a chaffinch singing. Listen!" she said. And she
tried to imitate its note, that her lover might remember. All the birds,
according to her, were good, except the cuckoo, and whenever she heard
him sing she would stop her ears, lest she should forgive him for
robbing the nests. "Every day," she said, "I have come to the wood,
because I was lonely, and it seemed to pity me. But now I have you. And
it is glad!"

She clung closer to his arm, and he kissed her. She pushed back her
straw bonnet, so that it dangled from her neck by its ribands, and laid
her little head against his shoulder. For a while he forgot his
treachery to her, thinking only of his love and her love. Suddenly she
said to him, "Will you try not to be angry with me, if I tell you
something? It is something that will seem dreadful to you."

"_Pauvrette_," he answered, "you cannot have anything very dreadful to
tell."

"I am very poor," she said, "and every night I dance in a theatre. It is
the only thing I can do to earn my bread. Do you despise me because I
dance?" She looked up shyly at him and saw that his face was full of
love for her and not angry.

"Do you like dancing?" he asked.

"I hate it," she answered, quickly. "I hate it indeed. Yet--to-night,
alas! I must dance again in the theatre."

"You need never dance again," said her lover. "I am rich and I will pay
them to release you. You shall dance only for me. Sweetheart, it cannot
be much more than noon. Let us go into the town, while there is time,
and you shall be made my bride, and I your bridegroom, this very day.
Why should you and I be lonely?"

"I do not know," she said.

So they walked back through the wood, taking a narrow path which Jenny
said would lead them quickest to the village. And, as they went, they
came to a tiny cottage, with a garden that was full of flowers. The old
woodman was leaning over its paling, and he nodded to them as they
passed.

"I often used to envy the woodman," said Jenny, "living in that dear
little cottage."

"Let us live there, then," said Lord George. And he went back and asked
the old man if he were not unhappy, living there alone.

"'Tis a poor life here for me," the old man answered. "No folk come to
the wood, except little children, now and again, to play, or lovers like
you. But they seldom notice me. And in winter I am alone with Jack
Frost! Old men love merrier company than that. Oh! I shall die in the
snow with my faggots on my back. A poor life here!"

"I will give you gold for your cottage and whatever is in it, and then
you can go and live happily in the town," Lord George said. And he took
from his coat a note for two hundred guineas, and held it across the
palings.

"Lovers are poor foolish derry-docks," the old man muttered. "But I
thank you kindly, Sir. This little sum will keep me cosy, as long as I
last. Come into the cottage as soon as can be. It's a lonely place and
does my heart good to depart from it."

"We are going to be married this afternoon, in the town," said Lord
George. "We will come straight back to our home."

"May you be happy!" replied the woodman. "You'll find me gone when you
come."

And the lovers thanked him and went their way.

"Are you very rich?" Jenny asked. "Ought you to have bought the cottage
for that great price?"

"Would you love me as much if I were quite poor, little Jenny?" he asked
her after a pause.

"I did not know you were rich when I saw you across the stream," she
said.

And in his heart Lord George made a good resolve. He would put away from
him all his worldly possessions. All the money that he had won at the
clubs, fairly or foully, all that hideous accretion of gold guineas, he
would distribute among the comrades he had impoverished. As he walked,
with the sweet and trustful girl at his side, the vague record of his
infamy assailed him, and a look of pain shot behind his smooth mask. He
would atone. He would shun no sacrifice that might cleanse his soul. All
his fortune he would put from him. Follard Chase he would give back to
Sir Follard. He would sell his house in St. James's Square. He would
keep some little part of his patrimony, enough for him in the wood with
Jenny, but no more.

"I shall be quite poor, Jenny!" he said.

And they talked of the things that lovers love to talk of, how happy
they would be together and how economical. As they were passing
Herbert's pastry shop, which as my little readers know, still stands in
Kensington, Jenny looked up rather wistfully into her lover's ascetic
face.

"Should you think me greedy," she asked him, "if I wanted a bun? They
have beautiful buns here!"

Buns! The simple word started latent memories of his childhood. Jenny
was only a child after all. Buns! He had forgotten what they were like.
And as they looked at the piles of variegated cakes in the window, he
said to her, "Which are buns, Jenny? I should like to have one, too."

"I am almost afraid of you," she said. "You must despise me so. Are you
so good that you deny yourself all the vanity and pleasure that most
people love? It is wonderful not to know what buns are! The round,
brown, shiny cakes, with little raisins in them, are buns."

So he bought two beautiful buns, and they sat together in the shop,
eating them. Jenny bit hers rather diffidently, but was reassured when
he said that they must have buns very often in the cottage. Yes! he, the
famous toper and _gourmet_ of St. James's, relished this homely fare, as
it passed through the insensible lips of his mask to the palate. He
seemed to rise, from the consumption of his bun, a better man.

But there was no time to lose now. It was already past two o'clock. So
he got a chaise from the inn opposite the pastry-shop, and they were
swiftly driven to Doctors' Commons. There he purchased a special
licence. When the clerk asked him to write his name upon it, he
hesitated. What name should he assume? Under a mask he had wooed this
girl, under an unreal name he must make her his bride. He loathed
himself for a trickster. He had vilely stolen from her the love she
would not give him. Even now, should he not confess himself the man
whose face had frightened her, and go his way? And yet, surely, it was
not just that he, whose soul was transfigured, should bear his old name.
Surely George Hell was dead, and his name had died with him. So he
dipped a pen in the ink and wrote "George Heaven," for want of a better
name. And Jenny wrote "Jenny Mere" beneath it.

An hour later they were married according to the simple rites of a dear
little registry-office in Covent Garden.

And in the cool evening they went home.



