

In the cottage that had been the woodman's they had a wonderful
honeymoon. No king and queen in any palace of gold were happier than
they. For them their tiny cottage was a palace, and the flowers that
filled the garden were their courtiers. Long and careless and full of
kisses were the days of their reign.

Sometimes, indeed, strange dreams troubled Lord George's sleep. Once he
dreamed that he stood knocking and knocking at the great door of a
castle. It was a bitter night. The frost enveloped him. No one came.
Presently he heard a footstep in the hall beyond, and a pair of
frightened eyes peered at him through the grill. Jenny was scanning his
face. She would not open to him. With tears and wild words he besought
her, but she would not open to him. Then, very stealthily he crept round
the castle and found a small casement in the wall. It was open. He
climbed swiftly, quietly, through it. In the darkness of the room some
one ran to him and kissed him gladly. It was Jenny. With a cry of joy
and shame he awoke. By his side lay Jenny, sleeping like a little child.

After all, what was a dream to him? It could not mar the reality of his
daily happiness. He cherished his true penitence for the evil he had
done in the past. The past! That was indeed the only unreal thing that
lingered in his life. Every day its substance dwindled, grew fainter
yet, as he lived his rustic honeymoon. Had he not utterly put it from
him? Had he not, a few hours after his marriage, written to his lawyer,
declaring solemnly that he, Lord George Hell, had forsworn the world,
that he was where no man would find him, that he desired all his
worldly goods to be distributed, thus and thus, among these and those of
his companions? By this testament he had verily atoned for the wrong he
had done, had made himself dead indeed to the world.

No address had he written upon this document. Though its injunctions
were final and binding, it could betray no clue of his hiding-place. For
the rest, no one would care to seek him out. He, who had done no good to
human creature, would pass unmourned out of memory. The clubs,
doubtless, would laugh and puzzle over his strange recantations, envious
of whomever he had enriched. They would say 'twas a good riddance of a
rogue, and soon forget him.[4] But she, whose prime patron he had been,
who had loved him in her vile fashion, La Gambogi, would she forget him
easily, like the rest? As the sweet days went by, her spectre, also,
grew fainter and less formidable. She knew his mask indeed, but how
should she find him in the cottage near Kensington? _Devia dulcedo
latebrarum!_ He was safe-hidden with his bride. As for the Italian, she
might search and search--or had forgotten him, in the arms of another
lover.

[Footnote 4: I would refer my little readers once more to the pages of
_Contemporary Bucks_, where Captain Tarleton speculates upon the sudden
disappearance of Lord George Hell and describes its effect on the town.
"Not even the shrewdest," says he, "even gave a guess that would throw a
ray of revealing light on the _disparition_ of this profligate man. It
was supposed that he carried off with him a little dancer from Garble's,
at which _haunt of pleasantry_ he was certainly on the night he
vanished, and whither the young lady never returned again. Garble
declared he had been compensated for her perfidy, but that he was sure
she had not succumbed to his Lordship, having in fact rejected him
soundly. Did his Lordship, say the cronies, take his life--and hers? _Il
n'y a pas d'epreuve._ The _most astonishing_ matter is that the runaway
should have written out a complete will, restoring all money he had won
at cards, etc. etc. This certainly corroborates the opinion that he was
seized with a sudden repentance and fled over the seas to a foreign
monastery, where he died at last in _religious silence_. That's as it
may, but many a spendthrift found his pocket clinking with guineas, a
not unpleasant sound, I declare. The Regent himself was benefited by the
odd will, and old Sir Follard Follard found himself once more in the
ancestral home he had forfeited. As for Lord George's mansion in St.
James's Square, that was sold with all its appurtenances, and the money
fetched by the sale, no bagatelle, was given to various good objects,
according to my Lord's stated wishes. Well, many of us blessed his
name--we had cursed it often enough. Peace to his ashes, in whatever urn
they may be resting, on the billows of whatever ocean they float!"]

Yes! Few and faint became the blemishes of his honeymoon. At first he
had felt that his waxen mask, though it had been the means of his
happiness, was rather a barrier 'twixt him and his bride. Though it was
sweet to kiss her through it, to look at her through it with loving
eyes, yet there were times when it incommoded him with its mockery.
Could he put it from him! Yet that, of course, could not be. He must
wear it all his life. And so, as days went by, he grew reconciled to his
mask. No longer did he feel it jarring on his face. It seemed to become
a very part of him, and, for all its rigid material, it did forsooth
express the one emotion that filled him, true love. The face for whose
sake Jenny gave him her heart could not but be dear to this George
Heaven, also.

Every day chastened him with its joy. They lived a very simple life, he
and Jenny. They rose betimes, like the birds, for whose goodness they
both had so sincere a love. Bread and honey and little strawberries were
their morning fare, and in the evening they had seed-cake and dewberry
wine. Jenny herself made the wine, and her husband drank it, in strict
moderation, never more than two glasses. He thought it tasted far better
than the Regent's cherry brandy, or the Tokay at Brooks's. Of these
treasured topes he had indeed, nearly forgotten the taste. The wine made
from wild berries by his little bride was august enough for his palate.
Sometimes, after they had dined thus, he would play the flute to her
upon the moonlit lawn, or tell her of the great daisy-chain he was going
to make for her on the morrow, or sit silently by her side, listening to
the nightingale, till bedtime. So admirably simple were their days.



