

One morning, as he was helping Jenny to water the flowers, he said to
her suddenly, "Sweetheart, we had forgotten!"

"What was there we should forget?" asked Jenny, looking up from her
task.

"'Tis the mensiversary of our wedding," her husband answered gravely.
"We must not let it pass without some celebration."

"No indeed," she said, "we must not. What shall we do?"

Between them they decided upon an unusual feast. They would go into the
village and buy a bag of beautiful buns and eat them in the afternoon.
So soon, then, as all the flowers were watered, they set forth to
Herbert's shop, bought the buns and returned home in very high spirits,
George bearing a paper bag that held no less than twelve of the
wholesome delicacies. Under the plane-tree on the lawn Jenny sat her
down, and George stretched himself at her feet. They were loth to enjoy
their feast too soon. They dallied in childish anticipation. On the
little rustic table Jenny built up the buns, one above another, till
they looked like a tall pagoda. When, very gingerly, she had crowned the
structure with the twelfth bun, her husband looking on with admiration,
she clapped her hands and danced about it. She laughed so loudly (for,
though she was only sixteen years old, she had a great sense of humour)
that the table shook, and alas! the pagoda tottered and fell to the
lawn. Swift as a kitten, Jenny chased the buns, as they rolled, hither
and thither, over the grass, catching them deftly with her hand. Then
she came back, flushed and merry under her tumbled hair, with her arm
full of buns. She began to put them back in the paper bag.

"Dear husband," she said, looking down to him, "Why do not you too smile
at my folly? Your grave face rebukes me. Smile, or I shall think I vex
you. Please smile a little."

But the mask could not smile, of course. It was made for a mirror of
true love, and it was grave and immobile. "I am very much amused, dear,"
he said, "at the fall of the buns, but my lips will not curve to a
smile. Love of you has bound them in spell."

"But I can laugh, though I love you. I do not understand." And she
wondered. He took her hand in his and stroked it gently, wishing it were
possible to smile. Some day, perhaps, she would tire of this monotonous
gravity, this rigid sweetness. It was not strange that she should long
for a little facial expression. They sat silently.

"Jenny, what is it?" he whispered suddenly. For Jenny, with wide-open
eyes, was gazing over his head, across the lawn. "Why do you look
frightened?"

"There is a strange woman smiling at me across the palings," she said.
"I do not know her."

Her husband's heart sank. Somehow, he dared not turn his head to the
intruder.

"She is nodding to me," said Jenny. "I think she is foreign, for she has
an evil face."

"Do not notice her," he whispered. "Does she look evil?"

"Very evil and very dark. She has a pink parasol. Her teeth are like
ivory."

"Do not notice her. Think! It is the mensiversary of our wedding,
dear!"

"I wish she would not smile at me. Her eyes are like bright blots of
ink."

"Let us eat our beautiful buns!"

"Oh, she is coming in!" George heard the latch of the gate jar. "Forbid
her to come in!" whispered Jenny, "I am afraid!" He heard the jar of
heels on the gravel path. Yet he dared not turn. Only he clasped Jenny's
hand more tightly, as he waited for the voice. It was La Gambogi's.

"Pray, pray, pardon me! I could not mistake the back of so old a
friend."

With the courage of despair, George turned and faced the woman.

"Even," she smiled, "though his face has changed marvellously."

"Madam," he said, rising to his full height and stepping between her and
his bride, "begone, I command you, from this garden. I do not see what
good is to be served by the renewal of our acquaintance."

"Acquaintance!" murmured La Gambogi, with an arch of her beetle-brows.
"Surely we were friends, rather, nor is my esteem for you so dead that I
would crave estrangement."

"Madam," rejoined Lord George, with a tremor in his voice, "you see me
happy, living very peacefully with my bride----"

"To whom, I beseech you, old friend, present me."

"I would not," he said hotly, "desecrate her sweet name by speaking it
with so infamous a name as yours."

"Your choler hurts me, old friend," said La Gambogi, sinking composedly
upon the garden-seat and smoothing the silk of her skirts.

"Jenny," said George, "then do you retire, pending this lady's
departure, to the cottage." But Jenny clung to his arm. "I were less
frightened at your side," she whispered. "Do not send me away!"

"Suffer her pretty presence," said La Gambogi. "Indeed I am come this
long way from the heart of the town, that I may see her, no less than
you, George. My wish is only to befriend her. Why should she not set you
a mannerly example, giving me welcome? Come and sit by me, little bride,
for I have things to tell you. Though you reject my friendship, give me,
at least, the slight courtesy of audience. I will not detain you
overlong, will be gone very soon. Are you expecting guests, George? _On
dirait une masque champetre!_" She eyed the couple critically. "Your
wife's mask," she said, "is even better than yours."

"What does she mean?" whispered Jenny. "Oh, send her away!"

"Serpent," was all George could say, "crawl from our Eden, ere you
poison with your venom its fairest denizen."

La Gambogi rose. "Even _my_ pride," she cried passionately, "knows
certain bounds. I have been forbearing, but even in _my_ zeal for
friendship I will not be called 'serpent.' I will indeed be gone from
this rude place. Yet, ere I go, there is a boon I will deign to beg.
Show me, oh, show me but once again, the dear face I have so often
caressed, the lips that were dear to me!"

George started back.

"What does she mean?" whispered Jenny.

"In memory of our old friendship," continued La Gambogi, "grant me this
piteous favour. Show me your own face but for one instant, and I vow
that I will never again remind you that I live. Intercede for me, little
bride. Bid him unmask for me. You have more authority over him than I.
Doff his mask with your own uxorious fingers."

"What does she mean?" was the refrain of poor Jenny.

"If," said George, gazing sternly at his traitress, "you do not go now,
of your own will, I must drive you, man though I am, violently from the
garden."

"Doff your mask and I am gone."

George made a step of menace towards her.

"False saint!" she shrieked, "then _I_ will unmask you."

Like a panther she sprang upon him and clawed at his waxen cheeks. Jenny
fell back, mute with terror. Vainly did George try to free himself from
his assailant, who writhed round and round him, clawing, clawing at what
Jenny fancied to be his face. With a wild cry, Jenny fell upon the
furious creature and tried, with all her childish strength, to release
her dear one. The combatives swayed to and fro, a revulsive trinity.
There was a loud pop, as though some great cork had been withdrawn, and
La Gambogi recoiled. She had torn away the mask. It lay before her upon
the lawn, upturned to the sky.

George stood motionless. La Gambogi stared up into his face, and her
dark flush died swiftly away. For there, staring back at her, was the
man she had unmasked, but lo! his face was even as his mask had been.
Line for line, feature for feature, it was the same. 'Twas a saint's
face.

"Madam," he said, in the calm voice of despair, "your cheek may well
blanch, when you regard the ruin you have brought upon me. Nevertheless
do I pardon you. The gods have avenged, through you, the imposture I
wrought upon one who was dear to me. For that unpardonable sin I am
punished. As for my poor bride, whose love I stole by the means of that
waxen semblance, of her I cannot ask pardon. Ah, Jenny, Jenny, do not
look at me. Turn your eyes from the foul reality that I dissembled." He
shuddered and hid his face in his hands. "Do not look at me. I will go
from the garden. Nor will I ever curse you with the odious spectacle of
my face. Forget me, forget me."

But, as he turned to go, Jenny laid her hands upon his wrists and
besought him that he would look at her. "For indeed," she said, "I am
bewildered by your strange words. Why did you woo me under a mask? And
why do you imagine I could love you less dearly, seeing your own face?"

He looked into her eyes. On their violet surface he saw the tiny
reflection of his own face. He was filled with joy and wonder.

"Surely," said Jenny, "your face is even dearer to me, even fairer, than
the semblance that hid it and deceived me. I am not angry. 'Twas well
that you veiled from me the full glory of your face, for indeed I was
not worthy to behold it too soon. But I am your wife now. Let me look
always at your own face. Let the time of my probation be over. Kiss me
with your own lips."

So he took her in his arms, as though she had been a little child, and
kissed her with his own lips. She put her arms round his neck, and he
was happier than he had ever been. They were alone in the garden now.
Nor lay the mask any longer upon the lawn, for the sun had melted it.




_BY THE SAME AUTHOR_

A BEAUTIFUL EDITION OF

THE HAPPY HYPOCRITE

Illustrated in Colour by GEORGE SHERINGHAM

     _Daily Graphic._--"A superb edition of a modern classic."

     _Scotsman._--"Gracefully illustrated in colour, 'The Happy
     Hypocrite' makes an exquisite gift book.... For old or young
     the book is full of a fanciful beauty."

     _Country Life._--"Mr Sheringham's delightful drawings printed
     in colour make this volume as fascinating a 'colour book' as
     has been seen for some time."

     _Times._--"Illustrated by Mr George Sheringham, this edition is
     one which any parent who duly respects himself will steal from
     the schoolroom shelves and keep upon his own.... The variety of
     Mr Sheringham's illustrations is wide.... Delicious ornament,
     subtle appreciation of the author's spirit, gracious fantasy, a
     fruitful joy in the coxcombry and style of the period--these
     help to produce a work which gives in an unusual degree the
     impression that the artist liked doing it."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WORKS OF MAX BEERBOHM WITH A BIBLIOGRAPHY BY JOHN LANE


    MORE

    YET AGAIN

    A CHRISTMAS GARLAND

    ZULEIKA DOBSON

    CARICATURES OF TWENTY-FIVE GENTLEMEN

    THE POET'S CORNER

    A BOOK OF CARICATURES

    FIFTY CARICATURES


     _Daily Telegraph._--"It is very seldom that a writer can treat
     with such wit and humour, blended with the most delicate fancy,
     such unpromising subjects as are included in this collection.
     In the ordinary events of the moment, in the most prosaic
     institutions, he finds something wonderful or something
     bizarre: from the dreariest of subjects he draws matter for
     quiet laughter."

     _Pall Mall._--"A pretty wit.... Mr Beerbohm has clear vision,
     discrimination, and like the best of paradox makers, always a
     fund of good sense."

     _Illustrated London News._--"He is altogether delightful in his
     whimsical moods.... 'More' is a book to buy and to turn to at
     odd moments."

     _Scotsman._--"Readers who have grappled with 'The Works of Max
     Beerbohm' will stagger beneath the announcement that 'More' has
     come from the same hand.... It is not so much what he is
     talking about that matters in the case of this author, as what
     he says. He writes oddly, but is always amusing: a pleasant and
     readable exposition of the London way of looking at life."

     _Referee._--"Not long ago 'The Works of Max Beerbohm' were
     published in one slim volume. Polite literature has now been
     enriched by the same author's 'More.' ... _Maximum Superbus_."

     _Daily Telegraph._--"When some three years ago the public were
     informed that they could buy 'The Works of Max Beerbohm' for a
     small sum, those who had not followed contemporary letters very
     closely imagined that the long-forgotten volumes of some bygone
     author were offered for sale in the lump, and scented a bargain
     with which to fill the gaps in their bookshelves. In the small
     book which comprised 'the works' they got their bargain. They
     have now a chance of acquiring 'More.'"

     _Academy._--"Mr Beerbohm can think and observe and write. He
     has the uncommon gift of seeing clearly the other side of
     things. He can stand aside impartially and watch contemporary
     life with the eye of the historian: his fastidiousness, when
     disciplined, is exquisite; his appreciation of the best is
     sound."

       *       *       *       *       *

_BOOKS BY RICHARD KING_


OVER THE FIRESIDE (WITH SILENT FRIENDS)

With an Introduction by Sir ARTHUR PEARSON.


WITH SILENT FRIENDS

Essay in Everyday Philosophy. Seventeenth Edition.

SECOND BOOK OF SILENT FRIENDS

Third Edition.

PASSION AND POT-POURRI

Third Edition.

BELOW THE SURFACE

Footnotes to the Everyday.

SOME CONFESSIONS OF AN AVERAGE MAN

     _The Times._--"Mr King is one of the Masters of the causerie,
     as those who have read his books well know."

     _Evening Standard._--"You will enjoy many pleasant hours with
     one of our most intimate essayists."

     _Daily Express._--"Mr King's easy, intimate, sympathetic style
     has made for him thousands of friends."

     C. K. SHORTER in _The Sphere_.--"Richard King is a man of
     genius."



