
I buzzed for two staffers, and in five minutes got Clark Cheyney and
Joan Hadamard, CIA's business manager and social science division chief
respectively. The titles were almost solely for the benefit of the
T/O--that is, Clark and Joan do serve in those capacities, but said
service takes about two per cent of their capacities and their time. I
shot them a couple of sentences of explanation, trusting them to pick up
whatever else they needed from the tape, and checked the line to the
divers' barge.

It was already open; Anderton had gone to work quickly and with decision
once he was sure we were taking on the major question. The television
screen lit, but nothing showed on it but murky light, striped with
streamers of darkness slowly rising and falling. The audio went
_cloonck_ ... _oing_, _oing_ ... _bonk_ ... _oing_ ... Underwater
noises, shapeless and characterless.

"Hello, out there in the harbor. This is CIA, Harris calling. Come in,
please."

"Monig here," the audio said. _Boink_ ... _oing_, _oing_ ...

"Got anything yet?"

"Not a thing, Dr. Harris," Monig said. "You can't see three inches in
front of your face down here--it's too silty. We've bumped into a couple
of crates, but so far, no egg."

"Keep trying."

Cheyney, looking even more like a bulldog than usual, was setting his
stopwatch by one of the eight clocks on ULTIMAC's face. "Want me to take
the divers?" he said.

"No, Clark, not yet. I'd rather have Joan do it for the moment." I
passed the mike to her. "You'd better run a probability series first."

"Check." He began feeding tape into the integrator's mouth. "What's your
angle, Peter?"

"The ship. I want to see how heavily shielded that dump-cell is."

"It isn't shielded at all," Anderton's voice said behind me. I hadn't
heard him come in. "But that doesn't prove anything. The egg might have
carried sufficient shielding in itself. Or maybe the Commies didn't care
whether the crew was exposed or not. Or maybe there isn't any egg."

"All that's possible," I admitted. "But I want to see it, anyhow."

"Have you taken blood tests?" Joan asked Anderton.

"Yes."

"Get the reports through to me, then. I want white-cell counts,
differentials, platelet counts, hematocrit and sed rates on every man."

Anderton picked up the phone and I took a firm hold on the doorknob.

"Hey," Anderton said, putting the phone down again. "Are you going to
duck out just like that? Remember, Dr. Harris, we've got to evacuate the
city first of all! No matter whether it's a real egg or not--we can't
take the chance on it's _not_ being an egg!"

"Don't move a man until you get a go-ahead from CIA," I said. "For all
we know now, evacuating the city may be just what the enemy wants us to
do--so they can grab it unharmed. Or they may want to start a panic for
some other reason, any one of fifty possible reasons."

"You can't take such a gamble," he said grimly. "There are eight and a
half million lives riding on it. I can't let you do it."

"You passed your authority to us when you hired us," I pointed out. "If
you want to evacuate without our O.K., you'll have to fire us first.
It'll take another hour to get that cleared from Washington--so you
might as well give us the hour."

He stared at me for a moment, his lips thinned. Then he picked up the
phone again to order Joan's blood count, and I got out the door, fast.
