
The redhead shrieked, dropped her brush, and started for the blonde.
Luckily, Maria, a hefty brunette with a voluptuous figure, stepped
between them.

"Cut it out!" she pleaded. "It'll be lights out in a little while.
Fight it out in the day-time."

"I don't want any trouble," the blonde said petulantly. "I just want a
little fun."

"All right," said the redhead. "Let's forget it. I guess we're all just
tired." She seated herself again and stroked her hair lazily with the
brush. "And we've got quite a day tomorrow."

"You said it," agreed the girl called Cleveland. She picked up
a mimeographed sheet from the table and read from it aloud.
"Eight-thirty, breakfast and initial briefing by Captain Johannson. Ten
o'clock, basic questionnaire. Eleven o'clock, physical examination.
Twelve o'clock, lunch. Two o'clock, domestic science test. Four
o'clock, photography." She looked up at the others pathetically. "Isn't
that awful?"

"Sounds okay to me," said the blonde, putting the final touches on her
outfit by stringing gold bracelets up and down her arm. "Except that
domestic science business. I burn water."

"Then you might as well go home," said the redhead sardonically.
"You've got to be a Betty Crocker to win _this_ clambake. Along with
everything else."

"It's the stiffest beauty contest _I_ ever saw," said the hefty
brunette wistfully. "Honestly, I've won a couple back home, and all I
had to do was--well, you know--kind of parade around a little."

"Well, this is an _important_ contest," said the blonde. "I mean," she
added hastily, on seeing the hurt look cross Maria's face, "this is a
_big_ contest. You know what you get if you're Miss Outer Space?"

"We know the prizes by heart, honey," said the redhead. "Why else do
you think we're here?"

"It's rough, though," Cleveland admitted, turning the paper over and
reading the agenda marked SECOND DAY. "Look what happens Tuesday. Ten
o'clock, endurance test. What do you suppose they mean by that?"

"I don't know," the redhead shrugged. "But it sure doesn't sound so
good."

"And listen to this one. Three o'clock, outer-space question period.
What about that?"

"But I don't _know_ anything about outer space," the big brunette
complained. "It just isn't fair!"

"Maybe it won't be so bad," Cleveland said comfortingly. "After all,
the judges must know that we're not astronomers or anything--"

"Seems like a heck of a lot of fuss to me," the redhead said, shaking
her head. "But I got this far. And even if I get bounced, at least I've
met a few nice guys--"

"Lot of good _that_ does," said the blonde, who had started for the
doorway of the cabin. "Before you know it, they'll all be shipped out
to Mars, and you'll never see them again."

"Yeah?" said the redhead. "Then how about your second-looie?"

The blonde made a despairing gesture. "Well, what can a girl _do_?" She
looked at them imploringly, and then went through the doorway.

"Lights out in fifteen minutes, girls," said a man's voice over the
loudspeaker in the corner of the room.

"That's Captain Lester," said the redhead. "Such a doll." She sighed
deeply, wound a bright green scarf around her head, and got up from the
table. She patted Cleveland's hand. "Cheer up, kid," she said. "You'll
feel better in the morning."
