
The messboys in the spaceport dining room couldn't stop grinning as
they wheeled their trays between the crowded tables. The room was
filled with an unfamiliar and highly decorative array of attractive
young ladies, and the musical din of their voices was an unusual sound
in the rough masculine atmosphere. Breakfast had been prepared with
extra care, and the girls had responded with remarkable appetites,
calling for more up and down the line. It was only until their second
cups of coffee were poured that Captain Johannson entered the room,
looking a trifle uneasy, and rapped for attention on a water-glass.

"Good morning, ladies," he said briskly, and flushed when they echoed
him with giggling "good mornings" of their own. He rapped the glass
once more, and tried to keep a straight face.

"I'd like to welcome you again to the Omaha Spaceport," he said. "We're
happy that you're here, and we're sorry if you have suffered any
inconveniences. As you can imagine, we're hardly equipped to entertain
almost two hundred young ladies, but we're doing the best we can under
the circumstances. We hope you'll put up with us for the three days of
the contest, and you'll find it all worthwhile."

"He's cute!" said a voice in the rear, and the room broke with
laughter. The captain really crimsoned now, and he looked sternly at
the grinning messboys.

"Harumph!" he said loudly. "As I was saying, you'll only have to put
up with us for three days, so it won't be too bad. If you need any
sort of assistance, you need only call my office--the extension is
thirty-three--and speak to a member of my staff. They'll be glad to
help you with any problem which cannot be handled by the Matrons.
Mail will be sent and received at my office, and if you wish to make
any long-distance phone calls, my staff can assist you there, too.
There are, of course, doctors on the field, in case any of you require
medical attention."

"How about dates?" said a voice from the rear. This time, there was
only a slight titter in the audience.

"I'm sorry about that," the captain smiled. "And if you think _I'm_
sorry, you should see the long faces on the field personnel." He basked
in their appreciative laugh. "I'm sure you all understand the reason
for this restriction. Interplanetary travel is a civilian enterprise,
of course, but subject to the same code as the armed forces. We're
constantly under close scrutiny by the public--whether we're sending
a new geological expedition to the outer planets, or staging a strict
publicity venture, such as the Miss Outer Space contest."

He cleared his throat. "So you see," he said carefully, "we must keep
the contest in a rather--respectable atmosphere. Harumph!" The girls
tittered again.

"Now," he continued with a relieved sigh, "I'll tell you something
about your agenda. You've all received copies, but some of the items
may seem more demanding than they really are. As you know, we are not
going to select Miss Outer Space on--shall we say, merely obvious
qualities. This is not a beauty contest in the strict sense of the
term. We want good-looking girls, of course," he said with a slight
twinkle, "and you all fill that bill quite nicely. But we are also
searching for other qualities which we believe Miss Outer Space should
have. Intelligence--no, I don't mean we're looking for lady Einsteins,"
he said as a groan rippled through his audience. "I mean good common
sense," he explained. "The ability to meet situations. Domestic
know-how, too. The rudiments of keeping a decent home. Physical
fitness. And something else, that I really can't define in a word.
Character, I suppose, is as good as any."
