
They made the march in less than half an hour.

Captain Johannson kept his eyes on the paper on his desk, pencil
poised, as the pretty girl in the chair watched him anxiously.

"I'm going to ask you some unusual questions," he said. "So don't be
surprised. You might call this a sort of 'psychological test.'"

The girl called Cleveland nodded.

"There won't be any pat answers, you understand. The outer-space
questions, as we call them, demand more--inventive answers, you might
say. So don't be nervous."

"All right," Cleveland said, none the less nervously.

"Here's the first question," said the captain. "Let's say you're in
your own home, and the water supply is suddenly turned off. And you
knew that it wouldn't work again for forty-eight hours. What would you
do?"

The girl stared. "Why, I'm not sure." She thought a while. "I suppose
I'd see if there were any water in the frig."

"Yes, of course," said the captain. "But what if you didn't have any
refrigeration equipment?"

"Well, I'd see if there were fruit or vegetables around. I'd get all
the juice I could find. I'd drink that."

"How about bathing?"

"I just wouldn't bathe. Not if I didn't want to be thirsty."

The captain smiled. "Now how about this," he said. "Let's say you've
built yourself a house. Quite a nice house. Taken you a long time to
build it. Then the foundation gives out for some reason, and your whole
house collapses before your eyes. What would you do?"

Cleveland blinked. "Cry, I guess."

"Then what?"

"What _could_ I do? Build another house, I suppose."

"I see." The captain leaned over the desk and made a notation on the
paper before him. Then he looked up and said:

"Are you afraid of bats?"

"What?"

"Bats. You know, those winged things."

"I don't know. I don't think I've ever really seen one. Except in
pictures, of course."

"Do you believe they get in your hair?"

The girl touched her blonde curls. "I don't think so. That's one of
those fallacies, isn't it?"

"Do you know what a Martian bat looks like?"

"No."

"Well, picture a fairly ordinary bat. It's something like that, only
its wing spread often reaches four feet. It's a pretty ugly customer.
Now, let's say you're in your own parlor one night, and this big thing
comes flapping into your house. And--fallacy notwithstanding--let's say
you _know_ this bat will just as soon land in your hair as anyplace
else. Would you be frightened?"

"Of course," said the girl.

"What would you do?"

"Hit it with a broom," she said.
