
The Omaha mess had been converted into an auditorium--it was the
largest single room on the field--and the messboys had contributed to
the event with elaborate decorations, makeshift affairs of crepe and
bunting and straggly floral bouquets. The clatter of folding chairs
was deafening as they were lined up in uneven rows, in readiness for
the audience. A heavy drape was strung against one wall, and spangled
letters were tacked to it, spelling out: MISS OUTER SPACE.

It was a nerve-tingling moment, especially in the cabins.

"My God, what's that, a coffee stain on my sleeve--?"

"My lipstick! Who's got my lipstick? That's my special shade--"

"Ouch! I must have gained ten pounds since I wore this dress--"

"I'm just not _used_ to high heels any more--"

"Poor Janie! If only she could have stuck one more day--"

"Honestly, you could give me _two minutes_ at the mirror! Just two
lousy minutes--"

"Just keep your eyes off that Hartwig fellow, Cleveland. It looks just
a little too obvious--"

"Maria, would you _please_ get your big--"

"Say, did you ever hear such a racket--"

"Those are _my_ slippers, you dope! Can't you recognize the difference
between a canal boat and a--"

"God, I'm so nervous I could die--"

"But honey, you look absolutely _ravishing_! I wish I could look _half_
as good--"

"Come on! Come on! They're calling us--"

Captain Johannson stepped to the front of the stage.

"Ladies," he said gravely, "before I tell you the judges' decision, I
have a rather important announcement to make."

The audience murmured, and then became still.

"When you first arrived at the Omaha Spaceport, I told you that none
of you here would leave without some sort of reward. I meant that
sincerely, and you'll find that I was telling the truth. But I have a
different kind of prize to offer you ladies now, and I hope you'll pay
careful attention as I describe it to you."

The audience stirred again.

"This has been a rather curious affair for all concerned," the captain
continued. "On the surface, the Miss Outer Space contest may have
seemed like a rather spectacular publicity stunt. It is certainly that.
But we had another intention in staging this competition--a far more
important intention, and one we have not revealed until this moment."
