
He looked directly at the women.

"Did you look up at the stars tonight?" he asked them. "It's a fine,
clear night, and if you did, you may have seen the planet which is the
core of the work of the Omaha Spaceport--the planet Mars. There are
people on that planet now, people from Earth. They're all men--young
men. The finest that the planet Earth can boast.

"These young men are performing some of the most important duties ever
assigned to young men in the world's history. They are settling a new
world for us--a brand-new planet, rich in mystery, danger, and untold
wealth. They are living hard lives, and often short ones, to pioneer
this new frontier. One of these days--perhaps many generations from
now--our world will fall on its knees and thank God for the duty and
the spirit which moved these young men to undertake this hazardous
and lonely mission. Someday, an overcrowded and worn-out Earth will
sanctify them for building a new home for the human race.

"You've seen some of these young men on your visit to this spaceport.
They are typical of the men on Mars today--vigorous, intelligent,
competent young men, well-versed in the sciences and the humanities.
Take a good look at them. It may be the last time you will ever see
them, for when the orders arrive that will take them to Mars, they
shall not return again. This is a lifetime assignment.

"The men here tonight, and the men on the winking red planet above our
heads have taken no wives and made promises to no sweethearts. The
only offer they can make a woman is hardship, privation, danger; an
unfamiliar world, and an unknown future.

"You may understand why they are lonely. And you may now understand the
unusual prize we offer you all.

"These young men have gone through trials similar to those you have
undergone here--but far more strenuous and demanding. They are the
cream of Earth's young men. We believe you are the cream of Earth's
young women.

"So here is what we believe to be truly the grand award in this
contest, ladies. A husband--a home--a new world--an adventure such
as no women in history have had the chance to share. Think it over
carefully. Let us know your decision.

"And now," he said, "the judge's decision."

Cleveland won, and she flung her arms about Lieutenant Hartwig when the
decision was announced. She took the trophy with her to Mars.


                                THE END

