
I drew myself up to my full height--and noticed in irritation it was
still an inch less than Quade's. "I don't understand you men. Look at
yourself, Quade. You've been busted to Ordinary Spaceman for just that
kind of thinking, for relying on tradition, on things that have worked
before. Not only your thinking is slipshod, you've grown careless about
everything else, even your own life."

"Just a minute, Captain. I've never been 'busted.' In the Exploration
Service, we regard Ordinary Spaceman as our highest rank. With my
hazard pay, I get more hard cash than _you_ do, and I'm closer to
retirement."

"That's a shallow excuse for complacency."

"Complacency! I've seen ten thousand wonders in twenty years of space,
with a million variations. But the patterns repeat themselves. We learn
to know what to expect, so maybe we can't maintain the reactionary
caution the service likes in officers."

"I resent the word 'reactionary,' Spaceman! In civilian life, I was
a lapidary and I learned the value of deliberation. But I never got
too cataleptic to tap a million-dollar gem, which is more than my
contemporaries can say, many of 'em."

"Captain Gavin," Quade said patiently, "you must realize that an
outsider like you, among a crew of skilled spacemen, can never be more
than a figurehead."

Was this the way I was to be treated? Why, this man had deliberately
insulted me, his captain. I controlled myself, remembering the
familiarity that had always existed between members of a crew working
under close conditions, from the time of the ancient submarines and the
first orbital ships.

"Quade," I said, "there's only one way for us to find out which of us
is right about the cause of our scanning blackout."

"We go out and find the reason."

"Exactly. We go. You and me. I hope you can stand my company."

"I'm not sure I can," he answered reluctantly. "My hazard pay doesn't
cover exploring with rookies. With all due respect, Captain."

I clapped him on the shoulder. "But, man, you have just been telling
me all we had to worry about was common transphasia. A man with your
experience could protect himself and cover even a rookie, under such
familiar conditions--right?"

"Yes, sir, I suppose I could," Quade said, bitterly aware he had lost
out somewhere and hoping that it wasn't the start of a trend.
