
"Looks okay to me," I said. Quade passed a gauntlet over his faceplate.
"It's real. I can blur it with a smudged visor. When it blurs, it's
solid."

The landscape beyond the black corona left by our landing rockets was
unimpressive. The rocky desert was made up of silicon and iron oxide,
so it looked much the same as a terrestrial location. Yellowish-white
sand ran up to and around reddish brown rock clawing into the pink
sunlight.

"I don't understand it," Quade admitted. "Transphasia hits you a foul
as soon as you let it into the airlock."

"Apparently, Quade, _this_ thing is going to creep up on us."

"Don't sound smug, Captain. It's pitty-pattying behind you too."

The keening call across the surface of consciousness postponed my reply.

The wail was ominously forlorn, defiant of description. I turned my
head around slowly inside my helmet, not even sure that I had heard it.

But what else can you do with a wail but _hear_ it?

Quade nodded. "I've felt this before. It usually hits sooner. Let's
trace it."

"I don't like this," I admitted. "It's not at all what I expected from
what you said about transphasia. It must be something else."

"It couldn't be anything else. I know what to expect. You don't. You
may begin smelling sensations, tasting sounds, hearing sights, seeing
tastes, touching odors--or any other combination. Don't let it bother
you."

"Of course not. I'll soothe my nerves by counting little shocks of
lanolin jumping over a loud fence."

Quade grinned behind his faceplate. "Good idea."

"Then you can have it. I'm going to try keeping my eyes open and
staying alive."

There was no reply.

His expression was tart and greasy despite all his light talk, and
I knew mine was the same. I tested the security rope between our
pressure suits. It was a taut and virile bass.

We scaled a staccato of rocks, our suits grinding pepper against our
hides.

The musk summit rose before us, a minor-key horizon with a shifting
treble for as far as I could smell. It was primitive beauty that made
you feel shocking pink inside. The most beautiful vista I had ever
tasted, it couldn't be dulled even by the sensation of beef broth under
my skin.

"Is this transphasia?" I asked in awe.

"It always has been before," Quade remarked. "Ready to swallow your
words about this being something an old hand wouldn't recognize,
Captain?"

"I'm swallowing no words until I find out precisely how they taste
here."

"Not a bad taste. They're pretty. Or haven't you noticed?"

"Quade, you're right! About the colors anyway. This reminds me of an
illiscope recording from a cybernetic translator."

"It should. I don't suppose we could understand each other if it wasn't
for our morphistudy courses in reading cross-sense translations of
Centauri blushtalk and the like."

It became difficult to understand him, difficult to try talking in the
face of such splendor. You never really appreciate colors until you
smell them for the first time.
