
Quade was as conversational as ever, though. "I can't see
irregularities occurring in a gravitational field. We must have
compensated for the transphasia while we still had a point of
reference, the solid reality of the spaceship. But out here, where all
we have to hang onto is each other, our concept of reality goes _bang_
and deflates to a tired joke."

Before I could agree with one of his theories for once, a streak of
spice shot past us. It bounced back tangily and made a bitter rip
between the two of us. There was no time to judge its size, if it had
size, or its decibel range, or its caloric count, before a small, sharp
pain dug in and dwindled down to nothing in one long second.

The new odor pattern in my head told me Quade was saying something I
couldn't quite make out.

Quade then pulled me in the direction of the nasty little pain.

"Wait a minute, Spaceman!" I bellowed. "Where the devil do you think
you're dragging me? Halt! That's a direct order."

He stopped. "Don't you want to find out what that was? This _is_ an
exploration party, you know, sir."

"I'm not sure I do want to find out what that was just now. I didn't
like the feel of it. But the important thing is for us not to get any
further from the ship."

"That's important, Captain?"

"To the best of my judgment, yes. This--condition--didn't begin until
we got so far away from the spacer--in time or distance. I don't want
it to get any worse. It's troublesome not to know black from white, but
it would be a downright inconvenience not to know which way is up."

"Not for an experienced spaceman," Quade griped. "I'm used to
free-fall."

But he turned back.

"Just a minute," I said. "There was something strange up ahead. I want
to see if short-range radar can get through our electrogravitational
jamming here."

I took a sighting. My helmet set projected the pattern on the cornea.
Sweetness building up to a stab of pure salt--those were the blips.

Beside me, there was a thin thread of violet. Quade had whistled. He
was reading the map too.

The slope fell away sharply in front of us, becoming a deep gorge.
There was something broken and twisted at the bottom, something we had
known for an instant as a streak of spice.

"There's one free-fall," I said, "where you wouldn't live long enough
to get used to it."

He said nothing on the route back to the spacer.
