
Nagurski brought out a pipe. He would have a pipe, I decided.

"No, not always. I was like you at first. Fresh from the cosmic energy
test lab, suspicious of everything, trying to tell the old hands what
to do. But I learned that they are pretty smart boys; they know what
they are doing. You can rely on them absolutely."

I leaned forward, elbows on knees. "Let me tell _you_ a thing,
Nagurski. Your trust of these damn-fool spacemen is why you are no
longer a captain. You can't trust anything out here in space, much less
human nature. Even I know that much!"

He was pained. "If you don't trust the men, they won't trust you, Gav."

"They don't have to trust me. All they have to do is _obey_ me or, by
Jupiter, get frozen stiff and thawed out just in time for court-marshal
back home. Listen," I continued earnestly, "these men aren't going to
think of me--of _us_, the officers, as their leaders. As far as the
crew is concerned, Ordinary Spaceman Quade is the best man on this
ship."

"He _is_ a good man," Nagurski said. "You mustn't be jealous of his
status."

The dog growled. He must have sensed what I almost did to Nagurski.

"Never mind that for now," I said wearily. "What was your idea for
getting our exploration parties through this transphasia?"

"There's only one idea for that," said Quade, ducking his long head
and stepping through the connecting hatch. "With the Captain's
permission...."

"Go ahead, Quade, tell him," Nagurski invited.

"There's only one way to wade through transphasia with any
reliability," Quade told me. "You keep some kind of physical contact
with the spaceship. Parties are strung out on guide line, like we were,
but the cable has to be run back and made fast to the hull."

"How far can we run it back?"

Quade shrugged. "Miles."

"How many?"

"We have three miles of cable. As long as you can feel, taste, see,
smell or hear that rope anchoring you to home, you aren't lost."

"Three miles isn't good enough. We don't have enough fuel to change
sites that often. You can't use the drive in a gravitational field, you
know."

"What else can we do, Captain?" Nagurski asked puzzledly.

"You've said that the spaceship is our only protection from
transphasia. Is that it?"

Quade gave a curt nod.

"Then," I told them, "we will have to start tearing apart this ship."
