
Sergeant-Major Hoffman and his team were doing a good job of ripping
out the side of the afterhold. Through the portal I could see the
suited men expertly guiding the huge curved sections on their ray
projectors.

"Cannibalizing is dangerous." Nagurski put his pipe in his teeth and
shook his head disapprovingly.

"Spaceships have parts as interchangeable as Erector sets. We can
take apart the tractors and put our ship back together again after we
complete the survey."

"You can't assemble a jigsaw puzzle if some of the pieces are missing."

"You can't get a complete picture, but you can get a good idea of
what it looks like. We can take off in a reasonable facsimile of a
spaceship."

"Not," he persisted, "if _too_ many parts are missing."

"Nagurski, if you are looking for a job safer than space exploration,
why don't you go back to testing cosmic bomb shelters?"

Nagurski flushed. "Look here, Captain, you are being too damned
cautious. There is a way one handles the survey of a planet like this,
and this isn't the way."

"It's my way. You heard what Quade said. You know it yourself. The men
have to have something tangible to hang onto out there. One slender
cable isn't enough of an edge on sensory anarchy. If the product of
their own technological civilization can keep them sane, I say let 'em
take a part of that environment with them."

"In departing from standard procedure that we have learned to trust,
you are risking more than a few men--you risk the whole mission in
gambling so much of the ship. A captain doesn't take chances like that!"

"I never said I wouldn't take chances. But I'm not going to take
_stupid_ chances. I _might_ be doing the wrong thing, but I can see you
_would_ be doing it wrong."

"You know nothing about space, Captain! You have to trust _us_."

"That's it exactly, First Officer Nagurski," I said sociably. "If you
lazy, lax, complacent slobs want to do something in a particular way, I
know it _has_ to be wrong."

I turned and found Wallace, the personnel man, standing in the hatchway.

"Pardon, Captain, but would you say we also lacked initiative?"

"I would," I answered levelly.

"Then you'll be interested to hear that Spaceman Quade took a suit and
a cartographer unit. He's out there somewhere, alone."

"The idiot!" I yelped. "Everyone needs a partner out there. Send out a
team to follow his cable and drag him in here by it."

"He didn't hook on a cable, Captain," Wallace said. "I suppose he
intended to go beyond the three-mile limit as you demanded."

"Shut up, Wallace. You don't have to like me, but you can't twist what
I said as long as I command this spacer."

"Cool off, Gav," Nagurski advised me. "It's been done before. Anybody
else would have been a fool to go out alone, but Quade is the most
experienced man we have. He knows transphasia. Trust him."

"I trusted him too far by letting him run around loose. He needs a
leash in more ways than one, and I'm going to put one on him."
