
"There they are!" Nagurski called. "Quade's footsteps again, just
beyond that rocky ridge."

The landscape was rich chocolate ice cream smothered with chocolate
syrup, caramel, peanuts and maple syrup, eaten while you smoked an old,
mellow Havana. The footsteps were faint traces of whipped cream across
the dark, rich taste of the planet.

I splashed some wine from my drinking tube against the roof of my mouth
to sharpen my taste. It brought out the footsteps sharper. It also made
the landscape more of a teen-ager's caloric nightmare.

The four of us pulled ourselves closer together by reeling in more
of our safety line. Farley and Hoffman, Nagurski and myself, we were
cabled together. It gave us a larger hunk of reality to hold onto. Even
so, things wavered for me during a wisp of time.

We stumbled over the ridge, feeling out the territory. It was a sticky
job crawling over a melting, chunk-style Hershey bar. I was thankful
for the invigorating Sousa march blasting inside my helmet. Before the
tape had cut in, kicked on by the decibel gauge, I had heard or felt
something dark and ominous in the outside air.

"Yes, this is definitely the trail of Quail," Nagurski said soberly.
"This is serious business. I must ask whoever has been giggling on
this channel to shut up. Pardon me, Captain. _You_ weren't giggling,
sir?"

"I have never giggled in my life, Nagurski."

"Yes, sir. That's what we all thought."

A moment later, Nagurski added, "Anyway, I just noticed it was my
shelf--my, that is, self."

The basso profundo performing _Figaro_ on my headset climbed to a
girlish shriek. A sliver of ice. This was the call Quade and I had
first heard as we were about to troop over a cliff. I dug in my heels.

"Take a good look around, boys," I said. "What do you see?"

"Quail," Nagurski replied. "That's what I see."

"You," I said carefully, "have been in space a _long_ time. Look again."

"I see our old buddy, Quail."

I took another slosh of burgundy and peered up ahead. It _was_ Quade. A
man in a spacesuit, faceplate in the dust, two hundred yards ahead.

Grudgingly I stepped forward, out of the shadow of the ridge.
A hysterically screaming wind rocked me on my toes. We pushed
on sluggishly to Quade's side, moving to the tempo of _Pomp and
Circumstance_.

Farley lugged Quade over on his back and read his gauges.

The Quartermaster rose with grim deliberation, and hiccuped. "Better
get him back to the spaceship fast. I've seen this kind of thing
before with transphasia. His body cooled down because of the screaming
wind--psychosomatic reaction--and his heating circuits compensated for
the cool flesh. The poor devil's got frostbite and heat prostration."
