
My hand was shaking when I called the Tech at the Civic Machine and
asked him to check up on the orders for scissors.

It took a minute or two, and when he came back, his face was puzzled.

"Funny thing, Boss--there is an order for just under 10 million pairs
of scissors. That's more than we have had in the past seven or eight
years. All ordered last night. There must be a mistake somewhere. I'll
run it through again and have a test made of the orders section."

"Never mind. Just do this," I said. "Fix up the Projector so it doesn't
send out any order for scissors and cancel any order that has been
placed." I was wringing wet with sweat. It was going to be a close one.

Believe me, boys, I didn't waste any time getting on FAX and TV,
telling everyone that there had been a change in plans due to public
demand and we weren't going to be able to roof over Central Park after
all. I suggested that, as long as the administration had cooperated,
the people should cooperate on the matter.

An hour later, I called the Civic Machine and asked for a check on
scissors. The orders had dropped to a mere 5.4 million. Way above
normal, but the way the cancellations were coming in, it was obvious
that it would be within reasonable proportions soon.

Just in case some of you missed the by-play on that, let me sketch it
in for you as I found it out later.

It seems that this Hatty Dakkon had organized a phone campaign on the
Let Our Children Enjoy Nature theme which went over big with the women.
Every woman called five woman friends and these five called five and so
on. You figure it out--with geometrical progression, it doesn't take
long to get in touch with about 14-15 million women. Not as fast as TV,
maybe, but a darn sight more effective and thorough.

It was the talk of the women's world and we men didn't even know about
it until the battle was all over.

This horde of women, led by Hatty Dakkon, agreed that they would order
the same dish--gelatin in a round mold on the same night.

You know what this can do to a good Projector. It just went frantic.

Projectors work on the basis of average demand for anything, and with
an average demand for round mold gelatin foods two nights in a row of
about 10-11 million, it went ahead and ordered a whole conveyor-load of
mold dishes from Schenectady.

The next time, it was square molds for two nights; and the next, it was
figure-eight for two nights and then a double shot of deep-dish.
