
Paul Wallach looked at me as though he'd like to speak but didn't want
to interrupt my train of thoughts. When he could contain himself no
longer, he said, "Out with it, Tom."

"Maybe," I muttered. "Surely there must be something physical."

"How so?"

"The tunnel car must be full of it," I said. "Screws?"

I turned to Saul Graben. Saul is our mechanical genius; give him a
sketch made on used Kleenex with a blunt lipstick and he will bring you
back a gleaming mechanism that runs like a hundred-dollar wrist watch.

But not this time. Saul shook his head.

"What's permanent is welded and what's temporary is snapped in with
plug buttons," he said.

"Good Lord," I said. "There simply _must_ be something!"

"There probably is," said Saul. "But this Harla chap would have to use
an acetylene torch to get at it."

I turned to Teresa. "Can this psi-man Harla penetrate metal?"

"Can anyone?" she replied quietly.

Wallach touched my arm. "You're making the standard, erroneous
assumption that a sense of perception will give its owner a
blueprint-clear grasp of the mechanical details of some machinery.
It doesn't. Perception, as I understand it, is not even similar to
eyesight."

"But--" I fumbled on--"surely there must be some common reference
there, even granting that perception isn't eyesight. So how does
perception work?"

"Tom, if you were blind from birth, I could tell you that I have
eyesight that permits me to see the details of things that you can
determine only by feeling them. This you might understand basically.
But you could never be made to understand the true definition of the
word 'picture' nor grasp the mental impression that is generated by
eyesight."

"Well," I persisted, "can he penetrate flesh?"

"Flesh?"

"Holly's heart has stopped," I said. "But it hasn't been removed. If
Harla can perceive through human flesh, he might be able to perceive
the large, single organ in the chest cavity near the spine."

Teresa said, "Harla's perception gives him a blurry, incomplete
impression." She looked at me. "It is something like a badly
out-of-focus, grossly under-exposed x-ray solid."

"X-ray solid?" I asked.

"It's the closest thing that you might be able to understand," she said
lamely.

I dropped it right there. Teresa had probably been groping in the dark
for some simile that would convey the nearest possible impression. I
felt that this was going to be the nearest that I would ever get to
understanding the sense of perception.

"Can't he get a clear view?"

"He has not the right."

"Right!" I exploded. "Why--"

Wallach held up his hand to stop me. "Don't make Teresa fumble for
words, Tom. Harla has not the right to invade the person of Holly
Carter. Therefore he can not get a clearer perception of her insides."

"Hell!" I roared. "Give Harla the right."

"No one has authority."

"Authority be dammed!" I bellowed angrily. "That girl's life is at
stake!"
