
Wallach nodded unhappily. "Were this a medical emergency, a surgeon
might close his eyes to the laws that require authorization to operate.
But even if he saved the patient's life, he is laying himself open to
a lawsuit. But this is different, Tom. As you may know, the ability of
any psi-person is measured by their welcome to the information. Thus
Teresa and Harla, both willing to communicate, are able."

"But can't Harla understand that the entire bunch of us are willing
that he should take a peek?"

"Confound it, Tom, it isn't a matter of our permission! It's a matter
of fact. It would ease things if Holly were married to one of us, but
even so it wouldn't be entirely clear. It has to do with the invasion
of privacy."

"Privacy? In this case the very idea is ridiculous."

"Maybe so," said Paul Wallach. "But I don't make the rules. They're
_natural_ laws. As immutable as the laws of gravity or the refraction
of light. And Tom, even if I were making the laws I might not change
things. Not even to save Holly Carter's life. Because, Tom, if
telepathy and perception were as free and unbounded as some of their
early proponents claimed, life would be a sheer, naked hell on earth."

"But what has privacy to do with it? This Harla isn't at all humanoid.
A cat can look at a king--"

"Sure, Tom. But how long would the cat be permitted to read the king's
mind?"

I grunted. "Has this Harla any mental block about examining the
outside?"

He looked at me thoughtfully. "You're thinking about a scar or some
sort of blemish?"

"Yes. Birthmark, maybe. No one is perfect."

"You know of any?"

I thought.

It was not hard for me to conjure up a picture of Holly Carter.
Unfortunately, I looked at Holly Carter through the eyes of love,
which rendered her perfect. If she had bridgework, I hadn't found it
out. Her features were regular and her hair fell loose without a part.
Her complexion was flawless ... at least the complexion that could
be examined whilst Holly sunned herself on a deck chair beside the
swimming pool.

I shook my head. Then I faced an unhappy fact. It hurt, because I
wanted my goddess to be perfect, and if she were made of weak, mortal
flesh, I did not want to find it out by asking the man who knew her
better than I did.

Still, I wanted her alive. So I turned to Frank Crandall.

"Do you?" I asked.

"Do I what?"

"Know of any scars or birthmarks?"

"Such as?"

"Oh, hell," I snapped. "Such as an appendix scar that might be used to
tell left from right."

"Look, Tom, I'm not her physician, you know. I can only give you the
old answer: 'Not until they wear briefer swim suits.'"

My heart bounced lightly. That Holly was still in mortal danger was not
enough to stop my elation at hearing Frank Crandall admit that he was
not Holly's lover, nor even on much better terms than I. It might have
been better to face the knowledge that Holly was all woman and all
human even though the information had to come from someone who knew her
well enough to get her home.

Then I came back to earth. I had my perfect goddess--in deadly
peril--instead of a human woman who really did not belong to any man.
