
I hadn't seen Saul Graben leave, but he must have been gone because now
he opened the door and came back. He was carrying a heavy rim gyroscope
that was spinning in a set of frictionless gymbals. He looked most
confused.

He said, "I've spent what seems like an hour. You can't tell me that
this gizmo is inseparable from the selfish, insular intellect of
terrestrial so-called homo sapiens."

He turned the base and we all watched the gymbal rings rotate to keep
the gyro wheel in the same plane. "It should be cosmic," he said. "But
every time I start, I find myself biting myself on the back of the
neck. Look. If you make the axle horizontal in front of you and rotate
the gyro with the top edge going away from you, you can define a common
reference. But motion beyond that cannot be explained. If the axle is
depressed on the right side, the gyro will turn so the far edge looks
to the right. But that's defining A in terms of A. So I'm licked."

Frank Crandall shook his head. "There's probably an absolute to that
thing somewhere, but I'm sure none of us know it. We haven't time to
find it. In fact, I think the cause is lost. Maybe we'd better spend
our time figuring out a plausible explanation."

"Explanation?" blurted Wallach.

"Let's face it," said Crandall. "Holly Carter's life is slipping away.
No one has yet come close to finding a common reference to describe
right from left to this Harla creature."

"So what's your point?"

"Death is for the dying," Crandall said in a monotone. "Let them have
their hour in peace and dignity. Life is for the living, and for the
living there is no peace. We who remain must make the best of it. So
now in about five minutes Holly will be at peace. The rest of us have
got to answer for her."

"How do you mean?"

"How do you propose to explain this unfortunate incident?" asked
Crandall. "Someone will want to know what happened to the remains of
Holly Carter. I can see hell breaking loose. And I can see the whole
lot of us getting laughed right off the Earth because we couldn't tell
right from left. And I can see us all clobbered for letting the affair
take place."

"You seem to be more worried about your professional reputation than
about Holly Carter's life!"

"I have a future," he said. "Holly doesn't seem to. Hell," he groaned,
"we can't even gamble on it."

"Gamble?"

"How successful do you think you'd be in getting this Venusian to risk
his life by closing his eyes and making a fifty-fifty stab in the dark
at one of those buttons?"

"Well--" started Wallach--"we'd be gambling too, you know. But--"
