
"Wait a moment," I said. "I've got a sort of half-cracked theory. May I
try?"

"Of course."

"Not 'of course.' I'll have to have quiet, with just Teresa to
communicate through."

"If you have any ideas, try them," said Wallach.

"Do you really know what you're doing?" demanded Frank Crandall.

"I think so," I replied. "If it works, it'll be because I happen to
feel close to Holly."

"Could be," he said with a shrug. I almost flipped. Duels have been
fought over less. But instead of taking offense, Crandall topped it
off by adding, "You could have been a lot closer if you'd tried. She
always said you had the alert, pixie-type mind that was pure relaxation
instead of a dead let-down after a period of deep concentration. But
you were always scuttling off somewhere. Well, go ahead and try, Tom.
And good luck!"

I took a deep breath.

"Teresa?" I asked.

"Yes, Mr. Lincoln?"

"Tell Harla to concentrate on the buttons."

"He is."

"There is a subtle difference between them."

"This he knows, but he does not know what it is."

"There is a delicate difference in warmth. One button will be faintly
warmer than the other."

"Harla has felt them."

I dropped the third-person address and spoke to Teresa as if she
were but one end of a telephone line. "Harla," I said, "only part of
the difference lies in the warmth to physical touch. There should be
another kind of warmth. Are you not affected by a _feeling_ that one is
better than the other?"

Harla's reply came direct through Teresa: "Why yes, I am indeed drawn
to the warmer of the two. Were this a game I would wager on it. But
that is emotion and hardly suitable as a guide."

"Ah, but it is!" I replied quickly. "This is our frame of reference.
Press the warmer of the but--"

I was violently interrupted. Wallach shook me violently and hurled me
away from Teresa. Frank Crandall was facing the girl, shouting, "No!
No! The warm one will be the red one! You must press the green--"

And then he, too, was interrupted.

Displaced air made a near-explosive _woosh!_ and the tunnel car was
there on its pad. In it was a nightmare horror holding a limp Holly
Carter across its snakelike tentacles. A free tentacle opened the door.

"Take her while I hold my breath," said Harla, still talking through
Teresa. "I'll return the tunnel car empty. I can, now that I know that
warmth is where the hearth is."

Harla dropped the unconscious girl in my arms and snapped back into
the car. It disappeared, then returned empty just as the doctor was
bending over Holly.
