
His task was simple enough. The controls were automatic until the
signal came for bringing the ship in, and then manual controls would be
used. Until then, he served as only a slightly necessary human element.
A voice. There was the radio, and his voice. He was to keep them
informed down there. Keep talking right up to the point when whatever
happened--happened.

Stevens talked. He reported the altitude, the velocity, the
temperature. He kept reporting as the three of them increased. His
eyes watched the light that might blink red. The "panic-light." When
that blinked, it meant curtains. It meant fire in the "Coffin." It
meant that if you were in a position to do it, you could use the
automatic pilot ejector and get hurled into the screaming currents by a
37 mm cartridge that shot the pilot and cockpit straight up at 60 ft.
per second.

At this altitude and this velocity, the ejector was useless.

He whispered, "Velocity--five thousand--" He spoke again.
"Velocity--fifteen thousand--"

It was frightening. He flicked on the observation screen. It was a
blur. He couldn't feel anything. He couldn't hear anything. If he could
only lift his legs, bend his knees. If he could only turn over on his
side--

He opened his mouth to scream, and somehow prevented the burst that
frothed to soundless bubbles on his lips. His body seemed to swell,
seeking to burst the Coffin's walls like a swelling mummy. The terror
remained in him, icy and deep.

He watched the gauges creeping up and up. He was speaking. He knew he
was reporting but he couldn't hear himself saying anything. He watched
the "panic-light" that would glow red and that would be curtain time.
There was no sound. No sound at all. There was no vision. No awareness
of motion. At this incredible height, at this frightening velocity,
there was no awareness of anything at all.

He was in a Coffin all right, and he was buried--as certainly as though
he were six feet under and as stationary as only the dead can be when
they are buried and forgotten down under the clean Earth where they
belong when they're tired.

They didn't belong up here, not this way.

"The cooling system's clogging," he heard himself whisper. "Crystals of
ice ... cockpit's like a miniature snow storm...."

He heard the unemotional voice come clearly to him. "The emergency
trigger--"

He used it. He felt a freezing grin rip across his face as he reached
out and used it. The icy spray died away and he heard himself saying
something else.

"It's the velocity. I don't have any reason for saying it--I just feel
it--you could feel it up here too--I can't explain it, but it's the
velocity. I know it. Maybe they crashed on the Earth somewhere. There's
lots of places on Earth a ship could crash and no one would know it,
especially when it would be taken for a meteor. But this feels like
it's the velocity that does it up here. Listen, what about this? Anyone
thought of this--what if the velocity breaks a man through into another
dimension?"

No one commented on that. It happened to him right then, and he felt
it coming. Reflexes tried to move his body, and his head and feet
drummed on the restricting tubular walls. There was a wrenching blur
and a slipping spinning vertigo.
