
He tried to understand. Vaporous curtains seemed to draw back one by
one and a kind of clarity flowed over his mind like cool ocean up a
white beach. A first faint tingling thrill moved in his blood, and
became pleasure that mounted through ecstasy and then became something
else for which he had no name.

He had called it--nowhere. This wasn't anything like that. This was
really _some_where. Soft lights bathed him like water. Shadows seemed
to shift and sway and there was silver in the light, dusted with golden
motes.

He thought desperately. "Where is this? What has happened?"

"This is Death," the voice that had no face or form answered. "That is
what you term it, in the lower stage reality from which you have come.
There are other ways of going through the barrier, but death is the
sure and the ordinary one. Many come through, in many ways--"

Stevens tried to understand, and he knew that he could not. He tried to
see his present form, his present meaning. There was nothing tangible.
He drifted. He was light and sound perhaps, movement perhaps. He was
part of something greater and far more complex than his undeveloped
powers of perception could absorb.

Stevens thought. "You mean--I'm--Dead. I mean--that I'm not living now?"

The thought answered him. It wasn't a sequence of words, phrases,
forming meaning. The entire answer was a part of him, immediately. "You
call it death. Actually you are more alive, you have come through the
barrier into what you call the fourth dimension. It is really but a
broader awareness of a higher reality--"

It didn't mean much to Stevens. The unknown, the intangible--it sent a
chill through his consciousness. Pain hit him. He winced. Light roiled,
irritation eddied like muddy streaks in a clear stream. A bluish haze
spread like staining ink through the clouds of brilliance. Dark cracks
spread like lines through colored glass.

Stevens felt an icy wind. He seemed to swirl inchoate through a forest
of wildly irritated leaves and branches.

The thought came to him, weakly, through distance that was more than
mere distance, through barriers of space and realms of time. It came to
him weakly, and it began to fade.

"Everything that was, that is, or will be, we are conscious of here in
this higher stage of reality. All must come through, and there is never
again contact with the lower stage, the third dimension of perception.
The matrix is universal, eternal, and it is set and unchanging."

Stevens' mind screamed. "But I'm returning--help me, I don't want to go
back. I want to stay, to stay--"

"You are John Stevens--" the voice, the thought, drifted to him from
what seemed infinite spaces.

"Yes, yes--"

"There is a distortion, you do not understand. Someday you will. You
are premature. The pattern is rigid, and everything has its set moment
of alteration. This distortion, I cannot explain. We are not perfect
here. There is yet a higher reality, and a higher one still, and the
stages are infinite. But you will be back, John Stevens. Soon. Very
soon."

"When--when?"

A column of sound arose and shattered in glittering spray. "The matrix
has the answer. John Stevens--no this is not your time. You call it
a week. Seven days. Such terms are meaningless here. To us, it is
happening now. We can see it happening. We can see you coming through
the barrier--to stay--to learn--to live as we live--"

"When?" he screamed at the fading thought.

"Soon. A week. Seven days. It is here. The Matrix has the answer...."

"Now. Let me stay," Stevens screamed. "I don't want to go back."

"You are not really here, or you could not go back. This is a glimpse.
Many have had it. Someday you will understand. But in seven days--"
