
The radio voice was shrill. "Can you hear? Can you hear? There has been
five seconds of unexplainable static! Can you hear?"

"Sure, I can hear," he said hoarsely. He blinked, stared at the blurred
instruments against his eyes. Suddenly he shouted. "I'm still alive,
you get that? I've passed the velocity apex, and I'm still alive!"

He heard Major Kanin's voice. Some of the fatuousness was lost in the
emotion of triumph. "Great! Great, you've done it! Now you've got to
bring her in! That pardon--"

All right. He would do that. He had been a super-boy, a jet-gyrene
himself, once. A big-shot, a wonder boy jet-hero, before he got that
jealous quirk that had turned out to be baseless. A feud that had gone
on for years and culminated in a fight, and Bill Carson had died from
concussion. There had been nothing between Doris and Carson, but it was
too late to think about that now.

The Military had been harsh, and he'd known he couldn't bear the
confinement. And he hadn't wanted Doris to suffer for his psychological
blowup either. He had volunteered for what should have been
suicide--but he still lived. He couldn't understand that. He should be
Dead. He knew that. But he wasn't, and he knew he would bring her in. A
pardon--

The world was small for Stevens. A coffin, a cannon-barrel. And he was
stuffed in it. His hands alone could move over the simple controls,
and his eyes could move over the gauges. A jet-pilot had to learn
a special feel to bring in a jet-ship. And Stevens had learned that
"feel" rapidly, years ago. It seemed a long time ago when he had taken
that harsh training: a few hours in a conventional flyer, a few more
in a Mustang 60. Then that rending day when he had "checked out" in a
jet-trainer.

Stevens' eyes bulged in sudden terror. Sweat blurred his vision. The
red light was glowing. The _Panic-Light_. It meant bad trouble at this
speed. Fire--

"But I'll bring it in," he whispered. Smoke curled through the Coffin.
The heat expanded around him rapidly. He thought of the ejector, but he
was too low now, coming in. He tried to scream. The crackling wavering
heat inside his helmet was intolerable. The controls were jammed.
His hands fell away and he dropped his head helplessly and the world
exploded....
