
This time there was a crowd, and they acted differently. They were
enthusiastic. There were doctors and nurses. Their faces were twisted
with admiration. Stronger than the admiration was a fearful kind of
disbelief. The Doctor touched his lips with his tongue and coughed
uneasily as he stared at Stevens.

Major Kanin was beaming. "Man," his voice boomed through the hospital
room. "Man! You're alive. No one knows how you can be alive, but you
are! We've licked it. It's a miracle!"

Voices agreed with that in a chorus of incredulous whispers. Miracle....

The Major said, "I've already got that pardon coming through, Stevens.
It'll be probational of course, but that will all be forgotten now,
Stevens. You're something special."

The doctors and nurses stared at him with unbelieving eyes.

"You've been examined thoroughly, Stevens, and you're all right, not
a scratch! It's impossible, but it's true. Every doctor here, every
mechanic, says it's impossible. Your ship's just a pile of melting
metal, Stevens, but you crawled out of it absolutely uninjured. Nobody
understands it, but everybody's glad!"

The Doctor whispered. "Miracles like this sometimes happen, but no one
can explain them. His body should be torn to pieces, burned. Well, he
certainly had to have had some unique physical quality to have gotten
through the high velocity peak."

"Yes, you hear that, Stevens?" the Major boomed.

Stevens was staring at the ceiling. He was trying to think, to remember.

"Now listen to this, Stevens. You went up a convict, and now you're a
hero. You're in perfect physical condition, so we're going right ahead
with Project Ultimo. And you'll handle the rocket, Stevens! If anyone
can get to the Moon, you can, from this exhibition today!"

"What's that," Stevens said. He looked at their faces.

"It'll take a week to get the rocket ready," the Major said. "It's the
Moon now, Stevens! The Moon!"

"The Moon," Stevens repeated.

"This will be no secret, Stevens!" Major Kanin stood up, his chest out,
his heavy-jowled face glowing with triumph. "The world will know about
it when you take off, this time. This won't be secret. The Enemy will
know then that they've lost! Lost, utterly and unquestionably. With
military bases on the Moon, they'll be helpless and they'll know it
when you make that successful flight! One week, Stevens!"

Stevens looked out the window at the gray curtain of rain. "What was
that? One week--" Something stirred in his memory. He grappled for it,
lost it. He closed his eyes.

"Seven days, Stevens, that's all!"

He didn't answer. For an instant, behind the bottomless darkness of his
closed lids, he saw something--something intangible and shimmering,
beyond the grayness and rain. And then it was gone.