
A resplendent aide hustled forward to where the official in charge of
the dome was wetting his lips over his rehearsed greeting. It was
quickly made plain that His Illustrious Sublimity desired
transportation and a look at the quarters he would have to put up with
until the jackals on Jursa came to their senses.

The official had tried to provide for every known imperial fancy. He
smirked delightfully when Vyrtl caught sight of the lozards tethered
at one side.

"By Pollux!" exclaimed the Emperor, his eye brightening. "We hadn't
expected the pleasure of riding till this was over."

"He tells me they have built a forest, Sire," reported the aide.
"About half a mile square. At least, you will have some relaxation."

"Good! It is all very well playing the soldier and roughing it
informally, but a man must have _something_!"

He surveyed the reptilian mounts that were led forward and chose one
whose eight legs were a trifle longer than average. With reasonable
agility, considering his bulk, he hoisted himself into the saddle and
set off toward the miniature palace awaiting him. His guardsmen
trotted alongside while the rest of his retinue mounted and followed
as best they could.

He drew rein once, to gaze up through the dome at the yellow-green
disk of Jursa. Wilkins overtook him.

"Note the dark line in the southern hemisphere, Sire," he said. "The
result of Marshal Tzyfol's sweep--the one that broke through their
fleets and led to their plea for terms."

"Excellent!" said the Emperor. He lowered his gaze and stretched his
neck uncomfortably. Vyrtl was unaccustomed to looking up at anything
or anybody. "They will bear our mark."

"It will teach them the lesson they deserve," agreed Wilkins
dutifully. "Autonomy, indeed!"

"Quite," said Vyrtl, urging his lozard forward. "Who are those fools
to think they can demand exemption from established imperial laws ...
they should be satisfied with the standard textbooks and forget their
puttering! Ha--what's this?"

He pulled up before a small replica of the palace.

"The dome engineer built it for your wives, Sire."

"Our wives?"

"Twenty of them volunteered to share the rigors of the campaign. Their
special transport arrived just before us."

"Humph!" grunted Vyrtl, riding past.
