
Early the next morning, after the engineers had arranged a dawn for
his benefit, Vyrtl called a council of his commanders. Chief-of-Staff
Robert Tzyfol reported on the situation.

The rebellious Jursans were sending a representative to ask for terms.
In the Marshal's strongly expressed opinion, no leniency was
necessary. The imperial fleets were slowly but surely stamping out all
resistance, making Jursa unlivable.

"Abject submission is their only course," he declared.

It was the sort of declaration with which Vyrtl might have agreed, had
he been able to voice it first.

As it was, he announced that he would keep it in mind when judging the
fate of the rebels. He had no inclination to destroy a perfectly good,
tax-paying planet if he could whip its inhabitants into line by other
means.

He ended the conference by stating his intention to ride in the
artificial forest. He enjoyed the glances of relief among the
generals--especially the older and more brittle ones--when he gave
them leave to resume their military duties instead of attending him.

A few hours later, Wilkins found Vyrtl and a small retinue resting
beside a pool at the edge of the forest.

"The rebel envoy has arrived, Sire," he reported.

Vyrtl kicked a pebble into the pool and spat after it. "We shall see
him immediately," he announced. "No use wasting ceremony on the
villain."

Returning to the palace, he strode into the audience chamber and
signaled for the envoy to be admitted. Still warm from his ride and
insultingly disheveled, he sat in the imitation of the great throne on
his capital planet, Hebryxid.

"If he isn't brisk," he muttered to Wilkins, "we may teach him
promptness by hunting him through the forest tomorrow."

Above the whispers of hastily assembled officers, courtiers, and a few
of Vyrtl's wives, a chamberlain announced, "The Jursan envoy, Daphne
Foster."

"A woman?" murmured Vyrtl.

"So it seems. She looks quite ... distinguished."

"Ha! The witty Wilkins! A pretty choice of words."

The woman approached the throne amid a low buzz from Vyrtl's
attendants, and bowed gracefully. Gracefully but not too abjectly,
considering the situation and his own position, Vyrtl thought. She
raised her head and endured his deliberate scrutiny.

She _would_ have to be a rebel, Vyrtl told himself. He supposed they
had scoured all Jursa for a real beauty to dazzle him; but they would
discover that it would not work.

At first glance, she had seemed slim, but he saw now that, though
tall, she was very well proportioned. A net of tiny, glittering jewels
was woven into the black hair that hung to her shoulders. Her features
were regular, but expressively alive compared to the artificial
placidity of the court beauties.

But what disturbed the Emperor of Pollux most was the way she looked
at him! He felt that it was stretching diplomacy a bit far.

A smile in deep blue eyes was pleasant, when someone was sufficiently
accomplished to muster it in his presence; but this was a shade too
familiar. She seemed to put herself on a level with him--as if to
share an amusement beyond the others present.

The next moment, he was trying to decide just what quality made hers
the most beautiful female voice he had ever heard. Consequently, he
missed most of the formula about "the gratitude of all Jursa" at his
receiving "his humble slave."
