
She was still tall, but her white hair gave her the look of the
seventy years with which Wilkins had credited her. Deep laugh-wrinkles
bracketed the mouth, with more at the corners of the still bright
eyes. The delicate bones of her face were more prominent.

There was nevertheless a clear resemblance to the Daphne Foster he had
received earlier.

_She looks ... she looked_, thought Vyrtl, _as this woman might have
looked when she was young ... or might have wanted to look._

No, that was not quite it.

_As she knew a man would have liked her to look!_

The woman on the screen spoke, her eyes smiling into his in a manner
that was painfully familiar.

"Your Illustrious Sublimity has become the first to share my little
secret."

Vyrtl, with a concentration of will, prevented his eyes from peeping
sidelong at Wilkins' expression.

"We are somewhat surprised," he said, knowing it for an asinine remark
but afraid to risk his dignity by being plainer.

"Of course," she said, "I hardly expect it to make any difference in
the imperial announcement of peace, but if any clarification is
desired of me, I shall be happy to oblige."

Vyrtl thought furiously. Had he actually _said_ anything to Wilkins or
anyone else? He tried to remember every word spoken at the conference.
It seemed to him there had been one or two slips, but they had been
taken for imperial witticisms.

No, he was safe enough. The Jursan Council and their technicians
naturally must know the "clarification" offered him, but they would
know better than to publicize it. He could afford to show no mercy if
they did. As things stood, it might be best to stand by his published
word.

"We desire," he said slowly, "that you, as ambassador, return
immediately. You will have every facility to communicate with your
government, to repay the inconvenience."

The old woman stared him in the eye, then bowed silently.

Vyrtl saw that she realized what it might mean. He hoped she would not
arrange an "accident" before her ship returned.

He had Wilkins take over and check with the captain of the rocket. It
was determined that the best effort would bring the ship back to the
dome on Klo about "mid-morning." Vyrtl left orders that the woman was
to be brought before him the moment she arrived, and retired for the
night.

He found Xota sprawled confidently upon his bed, and kicked her off in
a temper. His groping had found no loose object to fling after her as
she slunk out the door, and that made his temper worse. He was a long
time getting to sleep....
