
The next morning, he pecked at his breakfast and sneered at the
artificial dawn that had been delayed for his benefit.

"Get me a lozard and a squad of guards!" he snarled to Wilkins. "I'll
have a run through the woods while I wait."

He left the guards at the fringes of his engineers' forest and rode
the eight-legged reptile recklessly among the huge trunks. Since the
builder had artfully omitted all low branches, there was little chance
of his knocking his head off.

Towards noon, he paused to rest at the little pool on the edge of the
woods. He waved to a group of guards he saw peering at him across an
open field of what looked very much like grass. One of the men ran
over.

"The Jursan envoy is back, Your Illustrious Sublimity."

Vyrtl sighed.

"Tell General Wilkins to bring her here immediately."

He turned away and sat upon a flat stone beside the pool.

After a while, he noticed that the ground was liberally supplied with
pebbles for casting into the water. He was watching the spreading
ripples about fifteen minutes later when he heard approaching voices
behind him.

A glance over his shoulder showed him Wilkins and two guards escorting
the old woman. He turned away, tossing another pebble into the pool
with a half-hearted motion of his arm.

When Wilkins coughed discreetly behind him, he told the aide and the
guards to withdraw. He listened to the footsteps until he knew they
were beyond range of ordinary conversation.

"You are the same Daphne Foster?" he asked, still facing the pool.

"The same, Your Illustrious Sublimity."

"Let us dispense with formality. Tell me how you did it."

"It is simple ... in a way. But it requires the use of a not-so-simple
instrument."

"Such as I?" he asked, apparently intent upon the water.

"I did not mean Your Illustrious--I did not mean it that way. It is a
little triumph of our Jursan technicians, which will shortly be at
your disposal. I used it to force an illusion upon you."

"And very cleverly, I admit. Do you have it with you?"

"Yes. It is compact. It merely operates upon the idea that other
forces can be used to produce hypnosis besides lights, drugs, and
soothing sounds."

"Turn it on!" ordered Vyrtl.
