
He saw that she could not understand what could be wrong with his
position.

"Once, when I was very young," he said, "I thought I would rule. But
fourteen planets require a whole _council_ of co-ordinators! I gave up
that idea and tried to enjoy myself."

She stared at him uncertainly. He waved a hand at the artificial
forest.

"It has been like that ever since. They fall all over themselves to
devise new ways of getting my attention and to present pleasures and
entertainment I am incapable of enjoying. I have more wealth than I
can estimate, I sometimes forget which palace I am in, even my wives
look alike by now."

"I must sympathize with Your Illustrious Sublimity."

He flung her a hard stare.

"Perhaps you ought! Even my generals and their soldiers have their
dreams--of conquest or loot. The engineer who built this dome pictures
himself famous and admired. Wilkins is proud of his influence, and
other courtiers have visions of doing away with Wilkins and replacing
him."

He stood up restlessly.

"You will laugh at me, I know--but there is little enjoyment in life
when every whim is catered to at a snap of one's fingers. What have I
to _desire_?"

"I see." She nodded slowly. "The old saying about the pleasure of
anticipation outweighing that of attainment."

"You should know. You Jursans and your scientific renaissance, your
goal of contacting Terra again."

He beckoned to Wilkins and the two guards. They ran eagerly across the
grass.

"You see?" he snorted. "Sometimes I almost wish they would ignore me!"

He looked at her and saw the blue eyes achieve their knowing, amused
smile once more.

"That's right," he said, smiling back. "Now I shall have something to
keep my thoughts from becoming dull and bored. A man needs some
impossible dream for moments when he wants to relax."

Wilkins panted up, trying to look alert and willing.

"The unattainable Lady Daphne will accompany us to our capital," said
Vyrtl. "Make the necessary arrangements."

He enjoyed the way his aide covered up a momentary bewilderment.

_No one else will ever, ever understand this_, he thought with an
unaccustomed thrill of pleasure and amusement.
