
"Turibek--" Latham was remembering now. Turibek, capital city of
Venus, far on the other side of the planet. He'd had a small stake and
was lucky at the gaming tables. Before that it was Callisto, where he
had struck it rich in the iridium fields; anyway, rich enough to keep
him supplied with tsith for a year. Before Callisto it had been Mars.
He had worked the rocket rooms of Jovian freighters, he had served as
tourist guide in the dark little streets of Ganymede City, and when
fortune was lowest he had begged in those streets and done worse
things than begging. Before that he couldn't remember. He went
wherever whim and fortune took him, but the whims were short-lived and
the fortune invariably ended at the bottom of a glass. The deadly
tsith twisted his brain awry and took its toll and drove him on. He
had been "on the beach" on half a dozen planets. Earth he shunned. He
hadn't set foot there in more years than he could remember. At first
it was because he was ashamed, but even that was gone now. Only a cold
sickness was left in the soul of Joel Latham.

He stared at this fellow tsith hound, this shell of a Martian, and
said, "What happened last night?"

"What always happens," Kueelo said wearily. "We used up all our
credit. Penger kicked us out."

It took Joel Latham a full minute to absorb that piece of information.
Mixed up with the agony in his eyes was a pensive look, but no
resentment; his need just now was too dire for resentment. He stared
across the swamp at the outpost's straggling street. Jake Penger was
the law here, and he owned the only supply of tsith. Latham recalled
him vaguely, a huge man, inscrutable, uncompromising.

"Penger," he muttered. "That's it. I knew there was something I was
going to do."

"What were you going to do?" Kueelo moved in closer, a sudden light of
interest in his eyes.

"See Penger, of course."

"Why?"

"I need tsith! And I'm going to need it worse before this day's over."

Kueelo's eyes went dull again. "We both do. How do you think you're
going to manage it?"

"I'll show you. Never let it be said that Joel Latham was helpless in
face of an emergency." With unsteady fingers he began a search of his
clothes. And that's when the final realization descended upon Joel
Latham. These weren't his clothes, not the ones he had when he came
here.

He stared into the Martian's mango-like face. "I had a lucky piece. An
ancient Deimian jewel set in platinum. It's always been good for
credit."

Kueelo's sigh was like a wind through withered leaves. "That," he
said, "was used up two nights ago."

"I had a dis-gun, too! What happened to it?"

"We used that up last night. Penger allowed us four drinks apiece for
it."

Latham nodded miserably. "The space yacht. I guess it's already gone."

"Two days ago. Your fine feathered friends shunned you when they
learned you were a tsith hound. But I stuck by you," Kueelo added
cunningly.

Latham sank heavily onto a clump of swamp grass. He stared at his
right hand. It had started trembling. He couldn't stop the trembling.
He wondered dully if he was frightened, or if that was a result of the
terrible craving that twisted and writhed within him. He stared up
into the Martian's face.

"Stranded," he said weakly. "But I'll get out of here. I'll hire out
on one of the freighters--"

"You won't." Kueelo's voice was matter-of-fact again. "Not when they
learn you're a tsith hound. And Penger will let them know, you can bet
on that. He's a devil, that Penger."

"But he's an Earthman, and I'm an Earthman!" Latham's voice was almost
a wail. His soul was withering within him.

"Tell Penger that and see what he answers you. You're on the beach, my
friend. You've been there before, but this is the final beach--the
swampside of Venus. And here you'll stay until Penger is ready to let
you go. I've been here five years."

Joel Latham put his head in his hands and tried to think. Kueelo's
voice droned on:

"You'll work for Penger. You'll work in the swamps. An Earthman, a
Martian, a Ganymedian can do ten times the work of one of these
gweels." He gestured at the pallid-faced low-Venusians who moved
listlessly through the mud, pulling up the draanga-weed. "You'll work
for the amount of tsith Penger portions out to you, and glad to get
it."

At the word _tsith_, Latham's head came up. The dawning fear was gone
from his eyes.

"All right! I'll do it, but only for a while, mind you! I'll find a
way out of this. I'm getting back to the iridium fields on Callisto."

He plunged wildly into the mud and sank to his waist. But it was the
thought of tsith that drove him on, not Callisto. Kueelo stood by and
watched, a thin, knowing smile creasing his leathery lips.

A sort of frenzy had come upon Joel Latham. He tore at the stubborn
draanga-weed and brought it up dripping, tossing the long lengths
across his shoulder. He knew of this stuff.

When properly synthesized draanga-weed had a medicinal value on the
various planets. Penger shipped it out four times a year, at a neat
little profit.

Latham moved on. A yellowish fog had come down, the dreaded igniis
fatui. Unless one kept moving, decomposition of the blood set in,
essential salts within the body were dissolved and cellular activity
ceased. Latham grinned wryly. He doubted if it could touch him! There
was too much tsith within his alchemy. Nevertheless he moved and
worked ceaselessly. He could see that caricature of a Martian standing
back there watching.

Then it happened; the thing happened which was to prove both a promise
and a despair. Joel Latham felt a hardness at his heel, an irritating
lump inside his neoprene boot.

He moved back to higher ground, lifted his foot from the mire and
removed the boot. He shook something out into his hand. It was round
and hard and shiny, perhaps an inch in diameter. He held it aloft
between thumb and forefinger. The filtering sunlight struck it and
sent back lambent fires.

Joel Latham stared and gasped, felt his senses reeling.

"Purple!" he sobbed. "A purple Josmian!"
