
He was clambering back toward Kueelo. Forgetting the sweat in his eyes
and the insufferable heat, he held the thing aloft.

"Look at it!" he sobbed again. "Look at it shine! Look at the size!"

Kueelo was indeed looking. His yellowish eyes bulged. "A Josmian," he
whispered. "We've struck it rich!"

Joel Latham regarded the little caricature with astonishment.
Something of sanity came back to Joel Latham. "We?" he said. "I found
it. It's mine. I never knew you until four days ago!"

"But I stood by you," the Martian wailed. "Your friends deserted you,
but I stood by. Aren't we partners?"

Latham considered that. "No," he decided. "You stood by me as long as
I had credit for tsith! Until my money and lucky piece and dis-gun and
clothes were gone. Did you offer to help me out there?" he waved at
the swamp. "This Josmian is going to get me back to Callisto! Penger
ought to give me plenty for it."

What happened next was too swift for Latham's reeling senses. A
claw-like hand darted out, and Kueelo snatched the Josmian; his other
hand swung around and caught Latham hard across the throat, sending
him back into the swamp where he staggered for a moment and sat down
abruptly.

"Hey!" Latham protested. "Hey, look here--"

But the Martian was scuttling away like a huge fiddler crab, the
Josmian clutched in one scrawny fist.

Joel Latham came slowly up out of the mud, shaking his head and
grinning stupidly. It was very unkind of Kueelo to treat him like
this. He watched the Martian's departing figure. He made no effort to
follow--not at once--not until a strange new emotion, part frustration
and part despair, rose up in his breast, and close upon that the
dawning realization that he was being cheated of a last hope.

Even then he didn't hurry. He followed Kueelo, swinging along in slow
loping strides, but not gaining. He felt weak and sick. That jagged
need for tsith was again sawing away at his entrails. His feet tangled
in the outlying swamp grass, he plunged headlong and picked himself
up.

Kueelo was heading for higher ground away from the compound. Kueelo
was yelling as he ran. Latham wondered why the devil he was yelling.
Then, some distance ahead, Latham could see a third man lifting
himself from the ground. The Jovian! Suddenly Latham remembered him.
The Jovian had been with them last night too. Now Kueelo was tugging
at the man, yelling, showing him the Josmian.

The Jovian hoisted his bulk erect, turned and waited for Latham,
grinning broadly. The grin didn't fool Latham. All Jovians grinned.
Some of them grinned while breaking a man's vertebrae. This was one of
the big ones, Latham noticed, and he was ugly, with long reaching arms
and wiry hair and a face that looked as if he'd slept in it.

Latham stopped just short of him and reached out a hand. "I want the
Josmian," said Joel Latham.

The Jovian came a step forward. "You leave Kueelo alone. Kueelo, he's
my friend."

"I'm going to have that Josmian," said Joel Latham.

The Jovian thrust out a huge fist with amazing speed. Latham caught at
it and hung on grimly. The Jovian brought his other hand around in an
arc that caught the Earthman across the face, sent him sprawling ten
feet away.

"Josmian belongs to us, now. You leave us alone."

Joel Latham sat there wiping blood from his face, watching the bestial
pair as they headed around the compound and into the matted jungle.
His last glimpse, just before darkness swallowed them up, was of
Kueelo grinning gleefully back at him.

Latham sighed. He stood up. The blow had shaken some of the resolve
out of him. He turned east, northeast, east-by-north, like a compass
on a binge. Then he saw Penger watching him from the outer gate of the
compound. Apparently Penger had seen it all.

Latham turned and ran toward Jake Penger.

"You saw them!" Latham wailed. "You saw it. They stole my Josmian!
You've got to stop them!"
