
Penger planted his feet wide apart and surveyed the snivelling
Earthman. Penger's dark face was hard-cut and impassive. He'd seen
these tsith hounds before. They came here and died here. He hated them
all.

Penger said, "They did what?"

"The Josmian, the purple Josmian! I found it and they stole it from
me. You've got to help me, Penger!"

Penger said, "You're crazy."

"But I found it, I tell you! A big one. I'll sell it to you, Penger.
I'll--"

Penger said, "You're crazy with tsith. There hasn't been a Josmian
found in this swamp for ten years."

"Penger, listen to me--"

Penger said, "Forget it. You want tsith? You'll have tsith. But you'll
work and you'll work hard. You'll get the draanga-weed out."

"Penger, I'm an Earthman! I'm asking you as one Earthman to another--"
Latham stopped. He shivered. He looked into Penger's colorless eyes
and what he saw made his soul curl up within him.

"You're a what? An Earthman? You _were_ an Earthman! Now you're a
grubby little specimen of the genus tsith! You're a miserable, whining
little speck of matter wriggling toward the final transfixation! In
another year you won't even be that. You'll be dead and forgotten.
Don't come crawling to me talking about Earthmen!" The voice scraped
across Latham's naked nerve-ends. Penger's eyes blazed, and in his
trembling anger he almost raised a fist.

Latham cringed away. From out of his forgotten past something came to
Latham. He stared at the loom of jungle where Kueelo and the Jovian
had disappeared.

"I've seen the day," he complained miserably, "when they wouldn't get
away with this!"

"You've seen the day--period!"

"I'm asking you once more, Penger. Help me! At least give me back the
dis-gun."

"The dis-gun? Now what would you want with the dis-gun? You'd only
come trading it back to me. You bring in the draanga-weed, that's all
I'm interested in! And if you work especially hard, there'll be some
tsith--enough for your needs."

Latham's eyes went fever-bright. His lips writhed back, a fit of
trembling took possession of his limbs. Almost, he succumbed to the
immediate vision of the tsith; almost, he forgot about the Josmian.
But somewhere deep in his alchemy was a well of stubbornness he never
knew he possessed.

He clutched at Penger's sleeve as the man turned away. He found
himself screaming, "Then I'll go without the gun! I'm going to get
that Josmian, do you hear? You'll believe me then! You'll believe when
you see it, Penger!"

Penger shook him away. "Sure, sure. You bring me a Josmian. Then we'll
talk a deal."

He wanted to ask for a drink, just one drink of tsith right now, but
Latham had learned the essential fact that there could be no
compromising with this man. He reeled away. His brief outburst had
left him weak and trembling. Nevertheless, he went stumbling toward
the looming wall of jungle.

He heard Penger's voice, a little annoyed: "Where are you going?"

Latham stumbled on.

"You fool, you don't know these jungles! You'll die in there! You
won't last an hour!"

Latham didn't look back. Penger didn't call again. Latham could almost
imagine the man's shrug of indifference.

Vision stopped five yards away. A soft glutinous muck, worse than the
outer swamp, tugged at his ankles. Corrupt fungi-growth and giant
spiked ferns reached far above him in the blanketing fog.

Penger was wrong! He wouldn't die in here. Latham knew where he was
going. Kueelo had told him of the gweel village a mere few miles away,
where the foothills came down to touch the jungle edge. Kueelo and the
Jovian had undoubtedly headed for there and planned to lie low for a
while; when the time was propitious, they would sneak back to the
outpost and make a deal with Penger for the Josmian.

The route was long and circuitous, hugging the fringe of jungle. The
gweels traveled it every day. But Latham had a better plan. By cutting
directly through the morass, he might just arrive there ahead of them!

He would arm himself somehow and wait ... the element of surprise ...
that's all he could hope for now.

He left the glutinous path, and to his surprise it wasn't so bad. The
growths towered many times higher but were not so dense. Occasionally
the sun evidenced itself against the paling of mists hundreds of feet
above. Lusty, primeval odors were almost an opiate to his senses.

He plunged on for some ten minutes before he began to doubt. Gradually
the gloom came alive with motion and sound and unseen terrors. He
tried to segregate those that might mean danger. There came first a
gentle whirring of wings through the mist, sweeping close above him
and away. There came a gentle ripple through the foliage beside him, a
slither of sound that kept pace endlessly.

Was this what Penger meant? Still Latham had seen nothing. He wished
he had his dis-gun, though.

He wished it desperately, as a heavier sound came near. A grayish bulk
charged directly across his path. It was monstrous, semi-reptilian,
with wings arched sinuously along its spine as it half reared toward
him. Latham fell back against a tree bole and stood motionless,
staring into glittering feral eyes. The beast coughed raucously and
went thrashing back into the welter of jungle and mud.

Latham stepped away. His foot caught in a root and he fell headlong.
Instantly, tiny spheres of diaphanous substance showered about his
head, to burst in a scatter of violet spores. Those that touched his
skin turned instantly blood-red, and seemed to grow, burrowing deep.
Frantically he pulled them from his flesh, leaving raw red sores.

There was no trail to guide him now, but he did not immediately mind
that. He trekked the South Mars Desert and he had weathered the
jungles of Io. Tsith hound or no, he had an unerring instinct for
direction. He was sure the foothills couldn't be far ahead. But he
must have a weapon!
