
A silent dark shadow floated down. He glimpsed a razor-clawed
reptilian body, ten feet from wing to wing, its serpentine neck
darting wickedly. Latham threw himself aside as the tremendous whirr
of wings beat the air above his head. Close upon it came three others,
and Latham hit the mud. Looking back, he saw that one of the creatures
in its mad rush had hurtled into a giant fern, impaling itself upon a
four-foot thorn where it hung, screaming raucously as its life-fluid
ebbed away.

Latham crawled from the spot. Reaching another fern, he managed to
climb high enough to tear away one of the thorns. It was crude, but it
would serve as a weapon!

He was realizing his error now. He should have gone by the outer
route. He would never reach the gweel village ahead of Kueelo and the
Jovian, if indeed he reached it at all! Danger and death lay
everywhere about him. Time and again those serpentine shapes winged
down, silent and unwarning. He fended them off. Twice he speared them,
saw ocherous blood spill from their shiny integument. Other times he
wasn't so lucky, as sharp claws left a row of furrows in his back. The
miasmic yellow fog bit deep into his wounds.

Hours resolved into a nightmare of mud and heat and battle. Other
creatures crossed his path or curved at him from out of the tangled
fronds. He was becoming awfully weak, but a terrible madness lay
across Latham's mind like a patina, driving him on. Through feverish
turmoil, through waves of heat and pain and nausea that encompassed
the universe, Joel Latham pursued his course.

He never remembered the end. He never remembered coming out of that
deadly jungle. He pressed with his palms against moist earth, and
thought he must have been lying there for some time. His left arm was
shredded. His back was shredded. Inside his clothes he felt the warm
stickiness of his own blood. Outside his clothes was other substance
which he knew wasn't his blood.

Something long and shiny lay beneath his hands. The thorn! He clutched
at it frantically.

He felt if he could just lie there a moment, strength would come back
to him. But he didn't lie there. He tottered to his feet, and just a
few yards ahead the foothills sheered up and away from the jungle.

Every step was an agony. He followed along the foothills, trying to
find the gweel village. He had to find it! That much he remembered. A
tiny Martian and a brute of a Jovian were there, and they had
something that belonged to him. He had quite forgotten now what it
was, but it meant something to him, he knew, it meant a great deal.

He came upon the village, a cluster of clay huts high upon an
escarpment. Latham began climbing. He had to be careful now, something
pounded that warning into his brain. He saw groups of frail,
pallid-faced gweels moving about. They were harmless enough, Latham
knew that; but if those other two were here--

He reached the level of the village and moved nearer, staying behind
rocks and clumps of growth. Then he saw Kueelo! The Martian huddled
beside an open fire, stirring some substance in a huge gourd. As
Latham watched, Kueelo opened a leather pouch at his waist and took
something out. The Josmian! He held it up to the flickering firelight,
and the purple sheen of the gem was no more brilliant than the gleeful
look that appeared in Kueelo's yellowish eyes.

In that instant Latham almost leaped forward, but a tightness in his
temples stopped him. The distance was too great. And the Jovian must
be somewhere about! Quick surprise was his only chance. His gaze roved
up to the steepening cliff behind the village, and he saw the way.

Still clutching the thorn-weapon, he followed a little ravine up to a
rocky abutment. Thence along a ledge, to a spot just above the hut
near Kueelo. He judged the distance, decided he could make it in two
leaps; first to the roof of the hut, then to the ground.

Latham paused the merest instant, then launched himself downward. He
struck the roof with a force that jarred him to the teeth. He sprang
again, and that's when luck deserted him. His feet tangled in the
coarse thatchwork. He felt himself going over the edge, spinning
wildly off-balance, plunging headlong into the ground as the
thorn-weapon was flung far out of his grasp.

With a startled oath, Kueelo whirled about. Latham had a vision of the
man's ludicrous face. Then a tiny, shiny tube appeared like magic in
the Martian's hand. A power-rapier. Latham had heard that Martians
carried them always. Tiny and easy to conceal. A press of a stud
released a rapier-like shaft of electronic power that reached perhaps
five feet.

This occurred to Latham in a mere kaleidoscopic instant, then he was
propelling himself forward. His shoulder took Kueelo squarely in the
middle. Kueelo screamed as he went back. He tried to get the shiny
tube up. Latham got hold of the Martian's wrist and jerked it sharply
against his knee. Kueelo let out another yell and dropped the
power-tube.
