
Penger's eyes bored into him. "Joel Latham, I knew your father years
ago before he died on Mars. He was a fine man. A man of courage. I
wonder what Carl Latham would say now if he could see his son--"

"People from here to Mars and back," Latham rasped, "are always
telling me they knew my father! I'm sick of hearing about it! All I
want to know, do you buy this Josmian or not?"

"I may make you another deal. Suppose I give you the thousand credits.
But if I do, you don't go to Callisto."

"Where, then?" Latham's brain was throbbing, seeking out the gimmick.
There must be a gimmick.

Penger glanced at a tall, angular man who had stayed in the
background. A silent signal passed between them.

"They need a chart man at Asteroid Station Three. The work is not hard
but it's a thankless, monotonous existence. You're alone on an
anchored world a half-mile in diameter. You sign on for three years,
and there you stay. You have every need within reason, including
technical library and one-way radio. A government ship brings supplies
once a year, and they don't include tsith."

Penger paused and peered at Latham, whose face had gone pale beneath
the growth of beard. "Your task would be to chart the thousands of
rogue asteroids that cause havoc in the spacelanes every year. I
understand you once knew ray-screens, co-ordinates and parabolics. You
could brush up."

"It seems ... you know a lot about me!" Latham's voice was frightened.
It didn't want to leave his throat. He was staring at the glittering
blue tsith behind Penger.

Penger motioned to the tall, angular man with the bright eyes. The man
stepped to the bar.

"This is George Elston of Interplanet Commerce. He's been looking for
months for the right man. Frankly, I don't think it's you"--Latham
felt the impact of Penger's scorn--"but he has a cruiser outside, and
he can up gravs within half an hour in case you are interested."

"I'm not--" Latham continued to stare at the glittering blue flagon
just out of reach.

"I thought not. Well, I've made you two offers. I'll buy your Josmian
for credits or tsith!" Penger counted out a thousand credits and
slapped them on the bar. He poured a glass of tsith and placed it down
gently. "Your choice, Latham! A choice of escape!"
