
Ken whistled. "I smell a sucker game somewhere."

"Maybe so, but what's two dollars? The materials are worth more than
that as junk. And if they fix it.... How about going along with me to
return it, Ken?"

Ken lit his pipe carefully and glanced at his wristwatch.

"Okay," he said, "if we can be back in an hour. I'm curious to see
this place, but I've got a date with Lorene tonight and I have to get
cleaned up."

Jack winced. The roommates were competitors for the hand of Lorene
Shavely, the pert brunette in the tobacco store down the street. But
Ken was getting so much the better of it that it could be called
competition in name only by now.

"It's only about five blocks, on Gehannon Street," Jack said. "We'll be
back in time."

He repacked the television set in its box.

"Ardex," said Ken, reading the name on the box. "Off-brand. I never
heard of it before."

They set out, Jack carrying the box under one arm. The set was
remarkably light for its size.

The street lights were coming on along Gehannon Street, for it was
five o'clock on a winter afternoon. Jack bought a late edition from a
newsboy on the corner.

"Probably closed by now," said Ken.

But it wasn't. Just past Wing Fan's Chinese laundry, Jack turned into
an alley and went down a flight of concrete steps. There was a door
there, leading into a basement under the Eat-A-Bite Restaurant. It was
unlighted, and there were no signs there to indicate anything but that
the Grove Brothers Circus, Greatest Show on Earth, was coming to town
two years ago.

But when they opened the battered wooden door, the light inside
was like fairyland. Soft, of many changing hues, it lit a spotless
expanse of floor that stretched away farther than Ken had realized the
basement extended. The floor was broken by merchandise-loaded counters
and gleaming machines. Here and there a clerk moved, in raiment that
changed color with the light.

One of the clerks approached them. He was black-eyed, black-haired and
handsome, and wore a tunic and balloon trousers.

"Ah, Mr. Hanshaw!" he exclaimed, recognizing Jack. "Glad to see you
back again. But I see you have the--uh--television with you. Still
having trouble?"

"Yeah," said Jack. "The screen's no good. No picture at all."

The clerk looked puzzled. "The tube couldn't be bad. It must be in the
transmission facilities."

"You mean the TV stations? I don't see how--"

"Different methods of transmission," said the clerk hastily. "Just a
minute, Mr. Hanshaw, and I'll see what our communications man can do
about this."

He took the box from Jack and started off.

"Wait," said Jack. "Here's your newspaper."
