
Edigo nodded gravely. "My family has been in the mercantile business
for many generations," he said. "My father owns this store and it will
be the largest in the Americas when we finish it. Now, Mr. Adaman, do
you see anything that interests you? Anything at all?"

"Well," said Ken, moving over to a counter, "is this a watch?"

"Yes, sir, and a very good one." Edigo picked it up. It was a thin
dial, with three hands and twenty-four numerals instead of the usual
twelve.

"It's very nice-looking. But it's a pocket watch, isn't it? I wear a
wristwatch."

"Oh, no," said Edigo. "Hold out your arm."

Ken obeyed. Edigo placed the dial on his wrist, and it clung without
apparent support.

"Say, that's keen!" exclaimed Ken. "Some sort of magnetism, I suppose?
How much?"

"Would--would fifty cents be too much?" asked Edigo anxiously.

"Fifty cents? Sold!" Ken pulled a coin from his pocket.

"Oh, no, sir. Not the cash. Deposit it in the account, please, and
bring me the deposit slip. Mr. Hanshaw knows the bank."

"That's right," said Jack. "Broadway National, account of Supercolossal
Mercantile Company. Here's the deposit slip on the two dollars for the
television set."

"And we'll have it straightened out for you right away, Mr. Hanshaw, if
you can only bring us the manual."

As the two of them headed for the door to the basement, Ken said to
Jack in a low tone: "There goes another customer out ahead of us. I'm
going to stop him outside and see if he can give us the answers to some
of the things I don't understand about this place."

The customer, dressed like Edigo and all the others in the basement,
went through the door just ahead of them. Jack caught it just before
it shut. But when he and Ken mounted the steps, the man was nowhere in
sight, either up or down the alley.

"Where could he have gone?" asked Ken in amazement. "He'd have had to
run like hell to get out of the alley before we got up here."

They walked to the mouth of the alley and emerged into the glare of the
neon lights. Ken held up his new watch and looked at it in a stunned
sort of way.

"Say, you know something?" he said thoughtfully. "That fellow Edigo
Adaman looks vaguely familiar to me."

"I noticed that, too," said Jack. "Look like any of your relatives?"

Ken considered. "No, not in the least."
