
Several days later, Jack was in the tobacco store chatting with Lorene.
Mr. Schmit, the store's owner, registered silent disapproval in the
background, but was not likely to protest openly unless Lorene slighted
a customer.

Jack had told Lorene about the strange bargain basement the day after
he and Ken visited it. He found that Ken had mentioned it to her that
night, too.

"I couldn't find the kind of complete television manual they need at
any of the bookstores," said Jack gloomily. "I had to have one of them
order me one, and while I'm waiting, no television. The man said it was
color TV, too. I can't understand any store that big not getting its
own manuals."

"Have you ever been upstairs?" asked Lorene.

"Upstairs? There's nothing there but the Eat-A-Bite Restaurant."

"Oh. Ken said they had something like elevators going up, and it looked
like they might have floors above."

"I didn't know Ken had been back after that night," said Jack in
surprise. "He didn't say anything to me about it. I got the impression
he thought the whole thing was a fake."

Lorene's black eyes sparkled as she smiled, and she turned a cheek to
exhibit oddly cut earrings.

"He brought me these earrings from there. I'd think you'd be buying
other things, too, Jack, at those prices, instead of moping over that
television set."

"Oh, I have," said Jack. "I bought several suits of clothes at a
dollar each. They didn't have any in stock except those funny outfits
they wear in the store, but I took them a picture from a magazine
advertisement and they made me some suits to order."

"Is that one of them?" asked Lorene, gazing critically at the somewhat
baggy suit he was wearing.

"No," said Jack sheepishly. "I thought they were too nice to wear to
work. They're that spun glass, or whatever it is. Go dancing with me
tonight and I'll wear one."

"Can't," said Lorene. "I've got a date with Ken."

"I never get to go out with you any more, Lorene," Jack said glumly.
"What have I done to make you turn me down every time?"

"Nothing," said Lorene candidly. "I like you as a friend, Jack. But
Ken--well, he's got that extra something I can't resist. We're going to
get married, you know."

"No, I didn't," said Jack, but he wasn't very surprised.

Just then Ken breezed in.

"Hi, honey," he said. "Hello, Jack. Say, you two, come out and take a
look at my new car."

"New car!" squealed Lorene. "Oh, Ken! But I can't leave the store. I'll
have to look from the door."

"It's down the block," said Ken. "I'll drive by, and you can get a good
look tonight. Come on, Jack."

Jack went with him. The automobile was one of those low-slung,
half-block-long affairs like one Jack vaguely remembered seeing
pictured in a foreign car magazine.

"That's not yours," he said flatly. "Those things cost ten or fifteen
thousand dollars."

"Cost me fifty," said Ken smugly. "I got it at our friend Edigo's
store. Fifty bucks."

"You mean they carry things like that?"

"I took them a picture and they made it for me," said Ken. "Had to
widen that door and put runways up the steps to drive it out of there.
It cost me twice as much as the car to get the door widened and then
bricked back the way it was. They worked on the inside and I got a crew
to work on the outside."

"Seems to me they'd have had it out in the street for you, instead of
building it in the basement and then having to get it out," said Jack
critically, gazing up and down the gleaming length of black and chrome.

"Ha!" said Ken slyly. "That's just it, son. They couldn't. I've found
out the secret of our friends in the bargain basement."

"Secret? You mean there _is_ something phony about it?"

"I'll tell you while we're driving around in this dream wagon. But
first let me show you something."

He went to the front of the car and raised the hood. Inside was the
strangest little engine Jack had ever seen.

"What is it?" he asked.

"Turbo-jet," said Ken proudly. "And if you'll notice, you can't see
inside the car--one-way glass. And it's got radar brakes and a hundred
other new gadgets on it."

"But I thought the turbo-jet engine was still in the future," protested
Jack.

"It is," said Ken solemnly. "That's where our bargain basement is--in
the future."
