
"How far in the future?" asked Jack.

"I don't know. Pretty far, I expect. How much interest does that
bank account draw? You know, the one in their name, where we've been
depositing the money for the things we bought?"

"Three per cent, I think, compounded quarterly."

"It would have to be compounded to amount to anything in a couple of
hundred years or so."

"I still don't get it. Why do they sell things so cheap? Will prices be
that much lower in the future?"

"Probably a lot higher," said Ken. "They don't even use the same sort
of money we do--that's why they don't just ask us to make deposits
of their own money for them. But they can afford to sell us at these
ridiculously low prices because the deposits in their name draw
compound interest and build up to a lot higher than the value of the
merchandise in the future--_their_ time. I expect every dime we deposit
for them means a hundred dollars or more to them in their equivalent of
our money."

"I just don't see that," said Jack. "We're in their past. How could
they have us deposit money to build up for them, unless, to them, the
deposits are already there?"

"Edigo--you know, Jack, that fellow still reminds me of somebody I
know--Edigo explained it to me when I made him admit this future
business was true. The future can be changed, and we could change the
present if we could influence the past. And don't I wish I could manage
_that_ trick!" Ken added greedily. "So every time we put a dime in
their account--pop!--at their end, they've got an extra hundred dollars
or more in the bank."

"I suppose so," said Jack thoughtfully. "But how about this fellow
Edigo digging the basement? The basement's already there now. The real
one, I mean."

"In a hundred years, two hundred years, you think it'll still be
there?" demanded Ken scornfully. "Old Caswell's basement's going to
fill in again, and some time in the future, this fellow Edigo Adaman's
going to dig it out again. You know, Jack, with that name, he could be
a descendant of mine."

"He seemed to think he might be, from what he said that first evening."

"Look, buddy, we'll have to go back," said Ken, pulling the car into a
cloverleaf to turn around. "I've got a date with Lorene tonight, and
I'm sure anxious to see her face when she climbs into this buggy."

"Sure," said Jack. "But drop me off at the bargain basement, will you?
I've got an idea for something I want to buy."
