
Edigo looked at Jack curiously. There was that odd familiarity to the
man's face that Jack couldn't quite place.

"We have strict regulations against influencing an individual's
attitudes by artificial means," he said. "But I don't suppose it's
against the law in your time, is it?"

"Not unless it's a dangerous or habit-forming drug," said Jack.
"Possession of certain drugs, you know, can get you a stiff prison
sentence. But there are milder things, like perfumes and alcohol, that
influence people temporarily. That's sort of what I had in mind, only
with a stronger effect--not a habit-forming drug."

"Hmm," murmured Edigo. "What we have wouldn't have been discovered in
your time and wouldn't be covered by law. And it isn't dangerous or
habit-forming. It's prescribed by psychologists in certain cases. But I
am not sure I should--"

"One hundred dollars," said Jack.

"It's a great deal for five klens' worth of.... All right. Would you
prefer it in liquid, tablet or powder form?"

"How about like this?" suggested Jack, handing over a package of
chewing gum.

"Yes, it could be mixed in that. If you can wait a few minutes, I'll
have our chemist prepare it."

Edigo went away with the chewing gum, and Jack gave himself over to
doubts. Perhaps it wasn't fair, but what was that old saying about love
and war? Jack convinced himself that Ken hadn't been fair in getting
that flashy car.

What if Ken had thought of the same thing?

A momentary chill passed over Jack. But no. Ken didn't need it.

In a few moments, Edigo returned with the chewing gum. It looked no
different. Jack couldn't tell whether it was the same gum, with a new
ingredient added, or new sticks put in the old wrappers. It didn't
matter.

"Thank you. I'll deposit the hundred dollars right away," said Jack. He
took the gum and left.

He went straight to the tobacco store. He was just in time. Lorene was
getting her hat and jacket on to return home. Surprisingly, Ken was not
waiting outside for her with the new car.

"I'll walk you home, Lorene," suggested Jack.

"All right," she agreed, smiling at him. "Ken was to pick me up, but he
phoned and said he had to work late on inventory."

They left the store together.

"Have some chewing gum," suggested Jack, offering her a stick. It was
much better than trying to slip liquid or a tablet in a milk shake.

"Not right now," she said. "It's too soon before supper."

"Oh, come on," he invited jovially. "You only live once. I'll have
some, too."

No harm in that. It couldn't change his feelings much, anyhow.

She accepted a stick, and they chewed as they walked. Jack could guess
her feelings from the intensification of his own. Suddenly Lorene was
the most beautiful woman in the world--Cleopatra, Helen, the Queen of
Sheba. He would have died for her gladly.

He took her hand in his and squeezed it. She leaned against his
shoulder and turned starry eyes up to him. That walking kiss was the
most ecstatic thing he had ever experienced.

"Let's get married, Lorene," he said huskily. "Now."

"Yes, Jack, yes," she sighed.
