
Their wedding was a peculiar one--as the minister pronounced them man
and wife, Jack's clothing vanished. He was kissing his bride when a
sudden chill and the gasps of those around him made him realize he was
in his underwear.

He borrowed a suit from the minister and took Lorene back to the
apartment. Ken was packing his things.

"I'll move my stuff to a hotel until I can find another apartment,"
said Ken. "Call me a cab, will you, old man? Somebody's stolen my car."

Jack and Lorene were to leave on their honeymoon the next day. That
afternoon he announced his intention of going to the bargain basement
and lodging a complaint.

"That suit and shirt I had on were clothes I bought there," he said.
"If their stuff's going to disintegrate like that, it's not worth even
what little I paid for it. After that trouble with the television
set.... Say, what happened to the television set? I'll bet Ken took it
with him!"

"And to think I almost married him!" shuddered Lorene.

On the way to the bargain basement, Jack explained to Lorene what Ken
had told him: how the bargain basement existed in the future, and the
door to it was a fault in time.

They passed Wing Fan's laundry and turned into the alley. They went
down the steps to the basement door and opened it.

A blank wall of raw earth met their eyes.

"What in blazes!" exclaimed Jack.

There were footsteps in the alley above them. Old man Caswell came down
the steps with a policeman in tow.

"My basement!" Caswell was complaining bitterly, almost shouting. "I
was going to rent it today, and somebody fills it up with dirt. Why, I
ask you, _why_? Why would anybody want to fill my basement with dirt?"

He caught sight of Jack and Lorene standing to one side.

"You!" he cried. "You have anything to do with this?"

"Absolutely nothing," Jack assured him. "I thought there was a store
here."

"Store!" snorted Caswell. "Dirt!"

Jack and Lorene got away and made their way back to the street.

"Was there really a store there, Jack?" she asked.

"We're really married, aren't we, honey? I mean yes, there was. I don't
know what happened."

He looked at her, smiling, and the smile faded.

"Oh, oh," he said slowly. "I think I know now."

"What?"

"I know now who Edigo Adaman reminded me of. You!"
