
The music started abruptly, almost exploded into being, tore through
the silence of the planet like the strident scream of a wounded
animal. Trumpets blasted raucously, trombones moaned and slid, bass
drums pounded a steady tattoo. Tubas, heavy and solemn like old men
belching. Clarinets, shrill and squealing. Cymbals clashing.

A military band blaring its march into the night.

"Wha--"

Dave's mouth hung open. He stared into the distance.

There were lights, and the brass gleamed dully. A group of men were
marching toward them, blowing on their horns, waving brilliant banners
in the air.

"People," Cal said.

"And music. Like ours. _Music just like ours._"

The procession spilled across the sand like an unravelling spool of
brightly colored silk. Children danced on the outskirts of the group,
hopping up and down, screaming in glee. Women waved banners, sang along
with the band. And the music shouted out across the sand, a triumphal
march with a lively beat.

A fat man led the procession. He was beaming, his smile a great
enamelled gash across his face. The music became louder, closer,
ear-shattering now.

"Welcome," the shouts rang out. "Welcome."

"Welcome!"

"English!" The word escaped Dave's lips in a sudden hiss. "For God's
sake, Cal, they're speaking English."

"Something's wrong," Cal said tightly. "This isn't Mars. We've made a
mistake, Dave."

The fat man was closer now, still grinning, his stomach protruding, a
gold watch hanging across his vest beneath his jacket. He wore a white
carnation in his buttonhole. A homburg, black, was perched solidly atop
his head.

"They're human," Dave whispered.

The fat man stopped before them, raised his hands. The music ceased as
abruptly as it had begun. He stepped forward and extended his hand.

"Welcome home," he said.

Welcome _home_! The words seared across Cal's mind with sudden
understanding.

"There's some mistake ..." he started.

"Mistake?" The fat man chuckled. "Nonsense, nonsense. I am Mayor
Panley. You're back in New Calleth, gentlemen. The city is yours. The
_world_ is yours! Welcome home."

"You don't understand," Cal persisted. "We've just come from Earth.
We've just travelled more than 50,000,000 miles through space. We're
from Earth."

"I know," the mayor said, "I know."

"You know?"

"But of course. Isn't it wonderful?"

The crowd cheered behind him, telling the night how wonderful it was.

Cal blinked, turned to Dave. The mayor put his arms about the two men.
"We've been watching your approach for weeks. I'll have to admit we
were a little worried in the beginning."

"Worried?"

The mayor began chuckling again. "Why yes, yes. Not that we didn't
think you'd make it. But there were some who ... ahh, here are the
television trucks now."

The trucks wheeled across the sand, just like the thousands of trucks
Cal had seen back on Earth. The television cameras pointed down at
them, and the men stood behind them with earphones on.

"Smile. Smile," the mayor whispered.

Cal smiled. Dave smiled, too.

"Ladies and gentlemen," Mayor Panley said to the cameras, "It is the
distinct honor of New Calleth...."

The crowd raised their voices, drowning out his voice. The banners
waved, yellow, red, blue, orange. Welcome, welcome, welcome.

"... the distinct honor of New Calleth to be able to welcome home Bobby
Galus and Gary Dale."

"Galus! Dale!" the voices sang, "Galus! Dale!"

"Galus!"

"Dale!"

"Just a second," Cal interrupted. "You don't understand at all. Those
aren't our...."

"Four years in space," the mayor continued, "four years among the
stars. To Earth and back, fellow citizens, for the glory of Mars."

"You've got that twisted," Cal said. "We didn't...."

The mayor took Cal's elbow and turned him toward the cameras.

"You were in space for four years, weren't you Captain Galus?"

"Yes, we were. But it wasn't...."

"Space!" the mayor gushed. "Limitless space. The first men to land on
Earth."

Again the cries of the crowd split the night.

"Across the stretches of sky," the mayor continued. "Across the
unchartered wilderness above, across the...."
