
Churches aren't hard to find in Los Angeles on any day of the week or
at any hour of the day. They're behind the blank fronts of painted-over
store windows. They're located in big old nineteenth-century houses
along Adams; they spring up under tents in vacant lots and in large
expensive temples and bank-like buildings in the downtown area.

You pass by several likely-looking churches because they are in
neighborhoods that have alleyways, and you still remember that rat,
that red-eyed rat.

Then as you walk through downtown crowds, you remember something else.
Some dentist once said that the teeth of the people in the A-bombed
Japanese cities hadn't been affected by radiation. This is very funny,
it makes you laugh. You picture a world of blistered corpses, none of
whose teeth have been affected. You laugh out loud and people turn to
look at you.

A woman points you out to a policeman and he looks your way. You want
to keep on laughing but now you don't dare to. So you just keep on
walking, trying to keep the laughter from bubbling out of you.

"Hey, bud," the policeman calls to you, "what's the matter with you?"

"Nothing--nothing at all, officer," you tell him, and dive into the
next church you pass.

This one is called the Church of the New Cosmology. Inside, a
round-faced little man is talking to a few listless people.

"A geologist will never know the rocks until he has seen the Rock of
Ages. The botanist will never know plants until he has beheld the Lily
of the Valley, the cosmologist will never know the universe until he
has listened to the Word of God!

"Let us consider for a moment the sun. What do we know about the sun,
my friends? What do the so-called scientists know about it? What do
they tell us about our heavenly light? They say it's a giant ball of
fire millions of miles across and ninety-one million miles away. Now
why, I ask you, would that be so? The Bible says that God made the sun
to light the world. Now have you ever known the Lord to do anything
silly or foolish? Of course you haven't! Then why do they ask us to
believe that He would put the sun, which is supposed to light the
world, ninety-one million miles away from it? An engineer who did
something like that wouldn't be much of a God. The true answer, my
friends, is that Jehovah God did nothing so impractical and no matter
who tells you different, don't believe it!"

The little man's voice dropped to a husky whisper. "I have studied
my Bible and I've listened to the scientists and I've talked to God
Himself about it and I tell you this is the truth. The sun is our
heavenly light, the sure sign of God's love, and right this minute it
is just two thousand three hundred miles from Los Angeles! It is not a
wasteful million miles across, it is just forty-five and five-tenths
miles across ... just the right size to give us our beautiful
California sunshine.

"How do I know?" The whisper had grown to a hoarse shout. "How do I
know? I know because it's the Word of God, my friends! The personal
word of God given to me by God Himself.

"What else do I know? What else has God told me, to confound the
Godless scientists? Why, my friends, the Bible says that this earth
upon which we live is flat--as flat as this book!" He brings his hand
down with a sharp slap on the Bible. "You ask then how is it possible
to circumnavigate the world when it is a flat plane. The answer is that
it isn't possible. A ship that seems to go around the world really
makes a circle on the flat surface like this." With a stubby forefinger
he draws a circle on the book. "Now I know that those scientists up on
the moon say that the world is round, but whoever saw or heard of a
scientist that wasn't a liar? Can any of you really bring yourselves
to believe that this flat earth of ours is traveling through space at
the tremendous speed that they say it is? Tell me, do you feel any wind
from this great speed? Do you feel anything at all?"

No, you have to admit, you don't. You don't feel a thing. Even his own
congregation doesn't seem to.

This is thirsty work. You have a couple more drinks and then you
look for another church. You find one called the Church of Christian
Capitalism.

The thin old man with the dusty fringe of gray hair has his audience
well in hand as you walk in and take a seat. He makes the sign of the
cross and the sign of the dollar over their heads as he harangues them.

"Blessed are the wealthy for they shall please God," he says. "Christ
was the first capitalist, dear friends. He took a loaf and seven fishes
and blessed them and made them into enough food to feed a multitude. He
walked in poverty but he came to own the world!

"God is the Good Capitalist, the Owner and Proprietor of all
things on this earth. This country was created by those saints of
Capitalism--Morgan, Rockefeller and Gould."

Christian Capitalism sends you home to bed by way of another bar.
