
You're sitting in a room with people all around you. At first you don't
know why you're there and then you remember it's a party. Everyone
except you is laughing and drinking and having a good time. You have
a strange sense of foreboding, of something about to happen that you
can't avoid. You see a girl you know across the room and get up and
start to cross the room to her.

There's a sudden blinding flash of light outside the house and the
windows come crashing in. You see murderous slivers of glass piercing
the flesh of those about you and you hurry over to the girl you know
only to find her face and neck slashed by the flying glass and blood
streaming down over her bare breasts. You try to stop the flow of blood
with a handkerchief but it's coming in such strong spurts that you
can't.

A second shock wave follows the first with an even brighter flash.
You're knocked to the floor and the building comes crashing down. You
struggle against the falling masonry but it does no good. You feel the
crushing weight and scream ... and your screams wake you up.

You feel almost as bad awake as you did asleep, only now the crushing
weight is on your head instead of your chest and your mouth is filled
with the taste of death and decay. You figure you must have been
drinking last night but you can't quite remember.

You reach out your hand and it locates a bottle that still guggles a
little. Without opening your eyes you lift it hurriedly to your mouth
and then almost choke trying to spit it out. Mouthwash!

You manage to get your eyes open, and remember with thankful heart that
today is Sunday and you don't have to go to work. It's been five days
since the last dream and that's not so bad, but just the same you'd
better get up and get a drink because this one really shook you up. Or
maybe you ought to go to church. Perhaps you'd better do both.

A tall blond man in a black suit is standing on a platform in the
center of a group of forty or fifty intensely quiet people as you
enter.

"Is there a wall in front of you?" he asks.

"Yes, there is a wall in front of us," the people answer.

"Can you see the wall in front of you?"

"Yes, we can see the wall."

"Is there a wall behind you?"

"Yes, there is a wall behind us."

"Can you see the wall behind you?"

They all turn around and look. "Yes, we can see the wall behind us."

"Is there a floor beneath your feet?"

"Yes, there is a floor beneath our feet."

"Are you sure? Feel the floor with your feet."

There is a loud shuffling as they do as they are told.

"Are you sure the floor is there?"

"Yes, we're sure the floor is there."

"Now feel your feet with the floor."

There is more shuffling and during this you steal quietly out. This one
reminds you of the D.T.'s and you want nothing at all to do with that.

You get tossed out of the next place you try because the preacher says
you're drunk. You're not, but you wish you were, so you head toward The
Bar. You stop when you see the sign, "FLYING SAUCER CONVENTION." It's
over the door of a large building and underneath in smaller letters it
says, "Listen to the words of the Space People. Hear the advice they
bring us in these troubled times."

Surely, you tell yourself, the Space People will have a solution,
surely they can bring peace. You enter and see a young,
ordinary-looking fellow addressing a crowd of about three hundred. You
take a seat next to a bald man who is writing down what the young man
is saying even though it doesn't seem to make much sense.

"... member of a small group that has been in touch with the Space
People and feel that this world can be saved only through the aid of
superior beings. I will now play this tape which I obtained from the
captain of a Flying Saucer."

He places the tape on the spindle and it begins to whirl. A voice
begins to speak in slightly stilted English. "I am Lelan. I am what
you people of Earth think of as the head of the government of the
planet Nobila. I speak to you across the parsecs in order to bring you
good and bad news. The good is that a new age is about to begin for
the people of Earth through the aid of we Nobilians. We have already
contacted the President of the United States, the Pope of the Catholic
Church and all other world leaders. A new age is about to begin for you
as soon as we have saved you from the evil influence of the vicious
Zenonians from the planet Zeno. All Earth knowledge will become
obsolete as we supply you with new information and all good things will
be free in the days after we drive the Zenonians from among you.

"But first we must warn you that the Zenonians will try to stop us,
but you can help avoid this if you are alert. Look around you for
persons who seem strange. It is the Zenonians who have made you what
you are. It is the Zenonians who cause your wars and your crime with
their evil rays. We will use our good Nobil rays to combat their evil
Z rays. When we have driven them out, the world will be a better place
in which to live. But--beware! They are all about you. Examine the man
next to you. Beware! They are all about you. You shall hear from us
again."

You turn and look at the man next to you; he's looking at you. He _is_
a rather strange-looking guy and you edge away from him just as he
edges away from you. You turn to look at the man on the other side of
you. He is moving away from you also.

Then you hear the stories of the people in the audience. Every one of
them who stands up to speak has had a mysterious visitor in the night
or had a flying saucer land in his backyard. Most of them have had
trips to the moon and elsewhere in flying saucers. Space you think must
be as crowded as the Hollywood Freeway at rush hour. Almost all of them
have been contacted by superior beings from space because they are the
only people in the world who are wise enough to interpret the Space
People to the Earth people.

You feel pretty good from the drinks you've had, so you stand up and
tell them what you think.

"The first flying saucers were sighted after the atomic bombs were
first exploded," you begin. "And they became very prevalent after the
first Earth satellites were put into space and again after the first
moon rockets. I therefore think that the Earth is a cosmic madhouse in
which the human race has been incarcerated for its own good and that
every time we start rattling the bars, the keepers hurry down to take a
look."

No one seems to care much for your theory, and you are escorted to the
door none too politely.

No, the Space People don't seem to have the answer. With the headlines
you see at every corner chasing you, you head for The Bar and dive
gratefully through the door.

"So everybody dies," Ian is saying. "We're all dying, just sitting
here."

"Will you stop that? God damn it, will you stop that?" you yell at him.

Ian looks at you owlishly for a few seconds and then back at his drink.
Jones-Very and the others go right on with the conversation.

"It's merely what I was saying the other night," Jones-Very says. "It's
the contagious spread of the madness that is epidemic in our time. No
one wants war. But still we are going to have a war. After all, the
very zeitgeist of our times is one of complete callousness toward human
life. You have only to think of the Russian slave camps, the German gas
chambers and our own highway slaughter."

"Maybe life itself is just some sort of stupid mistake," Anna says.
"Maybe we're a cosmic blunder, a few pimples on the tail of the
universe."

"That isn't so," you blurt out. "There's purpose--there's got to be
purpose. You can't look around you and say there isn't purpose in the
universe; that there isn't a reason for our being here."

This time they all turn and look at you strangely. Then they look at
each other.

"I wonder," Jones-Very says, "if I wasn't closer to the truth than I
thought when I talked about contagion."

"What the hell do you mean by that?" you demand, half rising from your
seat.

"Nothing ... nothing at all," Jones-Very says, looking at the others.

"What this world needs is a moral renovation--a new birth of the
spirit," you go on.

"Oh, my God," Jones-Very moans, his head in his hands.

"Would you listen to that, in this age of space stations and moon
guns," Anna says.

"John, you're right--you're right! It's got him!" Bushman says.

You won't listen to any more of this. You get to your feet and stagger
with great dignity to the door.
