
You're dressed in high altitude equipment and you're sitting in the
nose of a jet bomber listening to the vicious growling of the motors.
You have a tremendous feeling of power and you think about how many
you'll kill this trip. You think about the big black bombs nestled in
the bomb bay and remember there is one for each of the three cities on
your list.

God, it will be beautiful! You can almost see the glorious colors of
the rising mushroom cloud and hear the screaming of the shattered
atoms. You can't hear the screaming of the people up here, that's one
of the nicest parts of this kind of murder. You can't hear them. This
makes you as happy as it must have made Attila and Hitler when they
killed their millions. Murder on a small scale may be illegal and
unpleasant, but mass murder can be the most exhilarating thing in the
world.

Then your bombs are gone and you're passing through the most beautiful
clouds you've ever seen but somehow they smell of charred flesh and
even up here you hear the screams of the people. The sound rips
and tears at your brain, destroying what little sanity you have
left. You've got to stop them! You've got to, before they drive you
completely mad. You tilt the nose of the bomber and dive toward the
screams. You've got to stop them! You scream back at them as you dive
and again your own screams wake you up.

This is the worst one you've ever had and your hangover is almost as
bad. You dress and hurry out of your apartment to get away from the
terror and the guilt but suddenly you remember that you aren't really
the guilty one. Or are you?

You look for a bar or a place to buy a bottle and then remember that
you haven't any money. You see Pat O'Malley up ahead of you in the
crowd and hurry to catch up with him. He hasn't any money either, so
you suggest that both of you go to church.

"Why not?" he says. "We have only our souls to lose."

The two of you enter the first one you come to and the woman on the
platform is an amazing sight. She's big and full-bodied and has all the
grace and arrogance of a lioness. She's got the Word and she's passing
it out in large doses.

"That's Dr. Elinda A. Egers, D.C.F.," O'Malley whispers. "Doctor of
Complete Faith."

You watch fascinated as that lush body of hers moves restlessly around
the platform.

"In these troubled times the tortured mind of man is hanging in the
balance, because he has forgotten his great enemy," Elinda shouts.
There's a wildness in her eyes and a sensuousness in the way she moves
her body that makes you move forward until you're sitting on the edge
of your seat. Any stripper, you muse, would give her G-string to be
able to imitate this woman's uninhibited way with her hips.

"Why are our asylums filled with millions of the mentally sick? And
why are there tens of millions of the physically sick among us?
WHY?" she demands at the top of her lungs. "Because the doctors and
the psychologists absolutely fail to recognize or blindly refuse to
recognize the demoniac origin of these illnesses. They have failed, my
dear friends, because they are bound to the unreality of conventional
science. They have failed because they did not look into their souls to
see what God has written there for all to read.

"If we face the truth, we will learn to recognize the presence of
demons and only then can we cure the inflicted!"

Demons, you think. What a lovely idea. Perhaps you have fallen through
a rift in time and come out in the Middle Ages with only wonderful
things like witches and demons to worry about. You turn to O'Malley to
tell him this, only to find him sound asleep. You've often wondered
where he did his sleeping, and now you know.

"The battle in the world today is not between nations but between Jesus
Christ and the Devil!" She has gone into a kind of bump and grind
routine now with her hands on those glorious hips and her body moving
back and forth while her legs remain absolutely still. It looks real
good from where you sit but you think it might look even better up
closer so you leave Pat snoring gently and take a seat further toward
the front.

"Come to me and the Lord will put out his hand and save you. He has
said unto me: 'You shall have the power to cast out demons,' and I have
replied that I will do so. If you feel it, say Amen!"

There is a lusty chorus of amen's from the winos and bums who fill the
auditorium. You have an idea they were attracted here by the same thing
that keeps you on the edge of your seat.

A man with the jerks of some sort comes down the aisle and the healing
starts. Dr. Egers lays one hand on his head and the other at the back
of his neck.

"Get out of him, you demons! Out! Out! In the name of the Lord, I
charge thee--get out!"

The man jerks even more violently. "Heal him, Lord, heal him! They're
coming out ... the demons are coming out. Can't you feel them leaving
you, brother?"

The fellow jerks once more and almost falls as an attendant leads
him away. "He's cured," Elinda shouts. "Praise God! He'll never have
another convulsion."

"Praise God! Praise God!" the congregation shouts. Only the
still-jerking man seems to have any doubts as to his cure.

"The Power of God will save you," she says to the little boy now
kneeling before her. "From the top of his head to the bottom of his
feet, I charge you, Satan, come out!" She hugs the child against those
astonishing breasts of hers. "This can be your cure if you believe,
Jimmy. All things are possible if you only believe. Little Jimmy, do
you have faith?"

The boy nods his head eagerly and his face is so full of faith and
belief that you find yourself nodding with him.

"Restore him tonight in the name of Jesus Christ!" she shouts, placing
her hands on his thin little legs. "This little leg, Lord ... send the
Power to restore this little leg. Drive the demon of evil from it!" Her
voice grows even louder. "The Power is coming! The Power is coming! The
Power is within me now and it will flow from me to you. Do you feel it,
Jimmy? Do you feel it? Do you feel it flowing in your legs?"

She has lifted him from the floor and is cradling him in her arms. "Do
you feel it, Jimmy?"

Christ, you can almost feel it yourself.

"Don't your legs feel different, Jimmy?"

"I think they're tingling a little," he says.

"Do you hear that?" she shouts again. "His legs are tingling! The God
Power is making them tingle!" She lowers the child to the floor. "You
can do it, Lord! Send the Power in the name of Jesus! Send it into this
little foot, into this little leg. Try, Jimmy, try it for me, try it
now!"

Jimmy tries to stand up but wavers and falls. With renewed effort he
manages to pull himself erect and stand swaying.

"YOU'VE SEEN IT! YOU'VE SEEN IT WITH YOUR OWN EYES!" Elinda screams at
them joyously.

Sure they've seen it but they don't seem much impressed. In fact,
most of them get up and leave after this round. You ease yourself out
of your seat and head toward the door, because you need a drink, but
you turn before going out to look back at her. She looks tired and
disappointment shows in her full sensuous face.

You know that she's the most wonderful thing you have ever seen. You've
found your religion. You've found something to worship--Elinda Egers,
the only real goddess in the world. You'll come here every night and
the bomb won't worry you because you have a religion now. Elinda Egers
will save you. You head for the nearest bar, singing "Rock of Ages" at
the top of your lungs.
