
You're running ... running, terror riding you like a jockey using the
whip. You're running while a boiling sea of flame rolls over the city.
Behind you and close on your heels come breakers of radioactive hell,
smashing buildings and lifting cars and people into the air. People
are running on all sides of you. A girl in a spangled evening dress, a
puffing little man in Bermuda shorts, a woman carrying two children, a
man with a golf bag over his shoulder and two men in gray flannel suits
followed by a woman in a sack dress that keeps blowing up over her face
as she runs.

The harder you run, the closer the fire seems to get. You can feel it
singeing your back and the fat little man screams as a lashing tongue
catches up with him and turns him into a cinder. The woman in the sack
dress tramples across the bodies of the two men in gray flannel but
the man with the golf club fights her off with his mashie. Then the
four of them are eaten up by the hungry flames. You moan and your legs
pump harder. There's an underground shelter ahead and you run toward
it only to find the entrance jammed with people. You try to fight your
way in. You grab hold of a man but his boiled flesh comes away in your
hands. Then you see they are all dead, packed together so tightly they
can't fall. You're running again and you see the woman with the two
children only there's nothing left of them but a charred arm and a hand
which she still clutches. The girl in the evening dress falls in front
of you and you stumble over her. You see her dress and then her hair
burst into flames. She throws her arms around you and you feel the
suffocating flames.

"Oh Lord--Lord," you moan, and wake up. The bottle of wine on the
nightstand is only half empty and you drink from it gratefully and
think of going out for more. But you remember your goddess and you know
that you have to go to see her.

She's in good form tonight as she talks about the Kinsey Report.

"If you're listening, say Amen!" She raises both arms as she yells this
and you're amazed at the way her big breasts rise with them.

"In the Old Testament, God demanded death for the adulteress but Dr.
Kinsey in his day tried to make her sins sound normal. But I tell you
that this sin is the road to Hell, for the person and for the nation.
God has destroyed other cities for this sin and His wrath will fall
upon yours as well.

"If you're listening, say Amen!"

"AMEN!"

"Are you really listening? Do you honestly want to hear? Or do you
prefer the way Los Angeles and the rest of the nation is going? Do you
prefer the way of sex, the way of fornication and adultery? Do you
prefer to read about sixteen-year old girls found in love nests with
older men? Do you prefer to think of boys and girls in the back seats
of cars? Do you prefer to think of some man's hand running over your
daughter's body, touching her...." Elinda Egers is swaying back and
forth, her body rigid, her breath coming faster and faster.

Someone else is breathing heavily and you're not surprised to find it's
you.

"If this is what you want, say Amen!"

"Amen!" you shout before you realize you're not supposed to this time.
No one seems to notice. Beads of perspiration are forming on the back
of your neck and trickling down your spine. The tabernacle is jammed
and there isn't much ventilation. You're dizzy with the wine, lack of
food and desire.

"Go ahead! Let your kids go to Hell! Let them read comic books and
smoke and drink and fornicate in the back seats of jalopies! Let them
go to filthy movies, let them listen to dirty jokes on television, let
them look at the brazen women with their breasts hanging half out of
their dresses."

"Oooooh ..." a woman in front of you moans, and you feel like moaning
with her.

"But if you don't want these things," Elinda shouts, her voice on the
verge of breaking, "sing--sing, sing with me!

    "_Come home, come home,
    Ye who are weary,
    Come home._"

You are sitting in a metal room with telescreens on the wall and a big
red button in front of you. Sweat is standing out on your forehead
and trickling down the back of your neck because you know the time is
coming, the time when you have to decide whether to push that button
and send a dozen ICBM's with hydrogen warheads arcing over the Pole.
In the telescreens you see cities ... peaceful scenes of people going
about their business. Then the people are running, leaping out of their
cars and leaving them on the street, vanishing into buildings and
underground shelters. Your hand is poised over the big red button and
your muscles are tightened as if your whole hand and arm were turned to
wood, and you know that even if you have to, you can't push that button
and destroy half the world.

Then in one of the telescreens there is a sudden white glare, and the
screen goes blank--burned out--and then in another telescreen you
see destruction fountaining like dirty white dust boiling out of the
streets ... and you see the buildings breaking and falling in rubble,
and now you hear the people's screams, a sound that tears through your
guts and drives you crazy, and the rubble is falling and sending up
more fountains of gray dust--and you know that this is happening to
your own country, your own people, and you have to strike back, you
have to push the button and avenge them, stop the slaughter by killing
the enemy's people and destroying their cities too, but you can't make
yourself push the button, your arm won't move and your fingers are
paralyzed, and then all the telescreens are glaring white or blowing
up in clouds of destruction, and you scream, scream in the metal room
until you can't hear anything but your own screaming, and then somehow
you force your hand down and push the button. And just as you feel it
go down, the walls of the room burst inward in a volcano of noise and
terror and the gray dust comes swirling in over you, blotting out your
screams....

You wake up and hurry through the streets with this last dream hanging
over you more heavily than any of the others. You've got to run--you've
got to get out. But look at all the other people. None of them are
running. They're going home from work--going into cafes, walking the
dog ... oh God, walking the dog at a time like this....

You're scared. The bloody world is coming to a bloody end. You know it
just as sure as you're sitting here in the warm sun in MacArthur park
with the fifth you've bought and are drinking from in a paper bag.

It's close now. You're not sure how close but it's close. The world is
coming to an end and you know you can't convince anyone that it is. You
feel the way Henny Penny--or was it Chicken Little?--must have felt.
The sky is falling! The sky is falling! Hell--you're just one more
caterwauling messiah in a city of messiahs. Los Angeles, where every
man is his own messiah.

Then you know what the trouble is. You've been looking for someone
to help you, when what you should have been doing was helping them.
Now you realize that you are the _one_, you are the messiah you've
been seeking. It's up to you to lead them out to the city into the
wilderness. You drink more and you drink it fast and the more you drink
the more a feeling of infinite compassion comes over you for your
fellow men.

You can save them. You can do it. You drain about two-thirds of the
bottle and then get up and walk toward a man in that uniform of
success, a gray flannel suit.

"Wait a minute, friend," you say, shifting the bottle to your left hand
so you can take his arm with your right.

"What is it? What do you want?" he says, looking at you as though
you're drunk.

"Have you seen the papers today, friend?" you ask.

"Let go of me," he says, pulling away.

"If you have seen them, what are you going to do about it?"

"I'm going home and eat my dinner." He hurries off.

You approach a plump, pretty little blonde pushing a baby carriage.
"Miss, can I have a few minutes of your time in which to save your
life?"

She looks frightened and tries to wheel the buggy around you.

"Have you thought about the future of this dear little child of yours?"

She breaks into a half trot and soon disappears with the baby carriage
bouncing along ahead of her.

You sit down for a few minutes and have a few more swallows of the
bourbon. When you get up you're surprised to find that you stagger a
little. But you've got to tell the people, you've got to make them
listen. Your eye lights on a garbage can a short way off and you know
you've found the way to do it. You take a stand beside the can and
with the bottle tucked safely in your pocket you begin to pound on the
can with both hands.

"Hey, listen, everybody! I've got to tell you about the Last Days of
Los Angeles. Listen to me! I can save you if you'll just listen! You're
doomed. The city is doomed!"

You pound like mad on the can, but this being L.A. where such things
happen every day, only a very few passersby stop. "Come over here and
let me tell you about it!" you yell. "Do you know what the power of the
H-Bomb can do? Have you heard of the C-Bomb? Do you know what nerve gas
is? Have you seen the Sputniks overhead? Do you know how far an ICBM
will travel and how fast? Do you know that there is no defense?"

You grab a man by the arm, but he shakes you off, so you reach for a
gray-haired old lady and get an umbrella in your middle from the dear
little thing.

"Boy, is he ever soused." Two teen-aged girls are standing in front of
you, giggling. "Did you ever see a guy so drunk?"

You want to save them and you start toward them with outstretched arms,
but they move back into the crowd. This makes you furious and you start
to yell again.

You grab the nearest person. It's a woman but you shake her anyway.
Someone has got to listen.

"Let go of me, you masher," the woman screams. "Help, somebody, help!"

The crowd closes in on you. A sailor grabs you from behind and a man
in working clothes hits you with a lunch bucket. You let go of the
woman and hit back at him.

"Help! Help!" the woman is still yelping.

"Call the cops--a man's trying to rape a girl!"

Someone hits you with an umbrella, and you know it's the same dear
little old lady. A guy grabs you by the neck and tries to throw you to
the ground but you kick him in the groin and trade punches with two
others. Then they're all over you. The old lady trips you and you go
down. She starts beating you with the umbrella as a man's foot smashes
against your head. You see a woman's nylon-clad leg as she raises her
spiked heel and brings it ripping down across your cheek. Other feet
crash into you.

"Let me help you," you're still yelling, but they keep on kicking. Some
of the shoes have blood on them, you notice through the haze, but they
still keep on kicking.

Then it's getting dark and you lie there and think how Henny Penny--or
was it Chicken Little?--must have felt. You want to tell someone about
it but you don't. You just lie there and wait for the screaming sirens
to come and take you away.



