
In the face of such argument, it seemed a pity to waste the water.
So none was wasted. Pearl Brown went back to the Alamo, which she
owned and ran, climbed up to the top of a sort of lookout chair
behind the bar, glared at a beer slinger, and said:

“Casey, you’re not tending to business. There’s a gent over there at
No. 5 table that has slipped off his chair and thinks the floor is
his boarding house. Chuck him out!”

The town marshal, arriving breathless and solicitous, approached her
and began to condole her on her loss.

“Is there anything I can do, Misses Brown?” he asked, with due
official courtesy.

“Not unless you wish to clear the ashes away to-morrow morning,”
replied Pearl Brown, unsmiling and unmoved. “I may want to build
something else there. Maybe it’ll be a nonsectarian church, or a Y.
M. C. A. Perhaps the latter would be best. This camp needs one.”

Murdock had not tired of discussing the idiosyncrasies of Pearl
Brown before she started another reformation. She had all the
curtains and red-plush sofas removed from the boxes in the Alamo and
a new sign put over the bar:

    THIS IS A TEMPERANCE HOUSE. TEMPERANCE CONSISTS IN
    KNOWING WHEN YOU’VE HAD ENOUGH AND THE WISE MAN MIXES NO
    DRINKS!

Having succeeded in clearing out her only rivals in business worth
consideration, by organizing a tar-feather-and-rail party for their
benefit which she led in person, the financial losses of her reform
movement didn’t exactly hit her bank account, as John Fosdike
remarked when he heard of the changes.

“Now with young Horace Ring and his _Weekly Star_,” remarked his
long-time friend “Circumlocutory” Smith, “it’s different. Most every
reform he undertakes costs him something. Sometimes most of his
subscribers, and many times a beating; but does he count the cost?
Not he. Just rolls up his sleeves and horns in with hoofs, tail, and
mane all flying in different directions. The more I see of that boy,
since he got grace and took to carrying a gun that he doesn’t know
how to use, the better I like him. By the way, what’s he got to say
about Pearl Brown’s latest moves?”

Fosdike laughed through his red beard and his eyes twinkled
humorously.

“Haven’t you seen it in his paper? Oh, I forgot that you’d been away
for a couple of weeks. Well, he came out with an editorial in which
he praised her but wound up with the statement that while this was a
step in the right direction, she could earn the higher approval of
the better class of citizens by closing the Alamo entirely and
taking up some more feminine occupation, like millinery. Pearl got
riled when she read it and went to see him. Nobody knows whether she
had her brass knuckles in her bag or not, but she met young Ring on
the street and told him that when she wanted advice, she’d call on
him personally.

“‘I like it,’ says she. ‘It’s so sound and so sweet; because if
there’s any town on the Big Divide where a good milliner is needed,
it’s Murdock. And while I think of it,’ says she, staring at him,
‘I’m not certain you wouldn’t make a better milliner yourself than
you are editor or gunman.’”

Circumlocutory Smith meditated over this for some minutes, and then
said: “She’s a Cathcart. That sounds just like Cathcart used to
talk.”

“Nope. She’s a Riggs. Don’t you remember what a sarcastic devil he
was?”

“So was Cathcart, when drunk. I bet a hundred dollars she’s a
Cathcart.”

“It’s a bet. I’ll take it. Shake! You seem to forget that Riggs was
sarcastic when he was sober, and this Pearl’s always dead-cold
sober.”

“She’s a Cathcart. The bet’s done made. I’ll win your hundred.”
