
The discussion of the antecedents of the woman known as Pearl Brown
was, for these two old frontiersmen, a continuous point of
difference. She had let them know that once upon a time in Tucson,
in the more reckless days of Trigger Smith, she had known both Smith
and Fosdike, and had asserted that in those days there had been but
four decent men in the town: Father Wyatt, a priest; Henry Bean, a
mail carrier; a saloon keeper named Riggs; and a blacksmith called
Cathcart, to one of which she “belonged.” Inasmuch as neither the
mail carrier nor the priest had ever married, and in those days she
must have been very young, they reasoned that her father had been
one of the latter two.

Furthermore, they were annoyed because the knowledge was one-sided,
she apparently knowing all their past, while they were ignorant of
hers. Also, with characteristic outspokenness she had told them not
to ask her any questions.

“A shut mouth catches no flies,” she told Fosdike, “Although, come
to consider it, perhaps that’s the reason you are compelled to wear
that red fly trap of a beard. Must have been born with your mouth
open. Wonder how your mother protected you when you were young?”

That ended all further personal interrogations. The two old friends
believed that she was not proud of her ownership of the Alamo, which
she ran by sheer fighting strength--most successfully, from a
financial viewpoint.

The miner repaired to his favorite loafing place in the saddlery
shop with ulterior motives, for the gray-bearded old saddler was a
gossip and a philosopher. Smith perched himself on the end of the
workbench, dangling his long legs and inhaling the smell of freshly
cut leather, and talked of many subjects before broaching the one in
his mind--about hand-carved Spanish saddles; silver-mounted Mexican
saddles, and cowpuncher “rocking-chairs.” Then he edged closer to
home topics until he brought the subject around to the Alamo.

“You know,” he said, “I sort of like that Pearl Brown. Reminds me a
lot of a man I used to know down in Tucson named Cathcart, a
blacksmith. Dead image of him. And they do say she comes from down
in that neck of the woods. Yes, sir, she certainly looks exactly
like him, and talks like he used to!”

“Ever ask her if she was any kin?” the old saddler inquired,
anything serving to rouse his bump of curiosity.

“No. I’d sort of like it, but you see me and her ain’t very good
friends. Just the same, I’d certainly like to know if she wasn’t a
Cathcart. Of course without her knowing that I sort of wanted to
know.”

And thus having planted a seed that he was confident would bear
fruit, Smith diplomatically changed the subject.

On the following day, he entered the saddlery and was greeted with a
scowl.

“You got me inter a hell of a mess,” the saddler said, “askin’ me to
go and ask that Pearl Brown if her dad’s name wa’n’t Cathcart!”

“I didn’t ask you to ask her. I just said----”

“Yes, I know; but you oughter heard what she said to me! She said
that if people who stuck their bills inter other folks’ business had
long noses, I’d have a nose like a pelican. An’ then all the fellers
that heard her laughed their fool heads off, when the Lord knows
there ain’t anybody that minds his own affairs more’n I do.”

The miner soothed the saddler and left with a sense of bafflement.
Smith was still endeavoring to think of other sources of information
when he went to the Miners’ Emporium and was hailed by its
proprietor.

“I’ve thought of a way to settle that bet,” said Fosdike. “My kid
brother is a lawyer down in Phoenix, and she let out one day that
she knew him. So I wrote him a description. You’ll see. She’s no
Cathcart.”

“We’ll see!” The miner grinned, and made a jest of it when he
departed for a two-week stay in the hills.

The next time he appeared in the Emporium, Fosdike met him with a
grunt and tossed him a letter. The miner read:

    If this woman is about thirty years old or younger, as
    you say, I’m afraid I can’t help to identify her,
    although she would be near my own age. Cathcart and
    Riggs each had two daughters, all good looking, and all
    with what you call “snappy black eyes.” Also, all were
    self-reliant. But none of them was named “Pearl,” and I
    never knew a girl named “Pearl.”

“Humph!” said Smith. “Only way I can think of to find out who she
was is to get Ring after her. They’re such good friends!”

Both laughed at this ironic jest, for the feud between The Reformer
and the owner of the Alamo had become a classic throughout the
entire district; and yet, in the end, it was the editor who first
got the information.

For some tranquil weeks, The Reformer blithely went his way without
giving any one sufficient cause to try to kill him. Perhaps the
widely advertised fact that he had at last yielded to the protective
use of firearms deterred the less courageous spirits from taking a
chance, while others hoped that this was evidence that he was
becoming tolerant to the exigencies of his environment.

Ring had come to Murdock from the highly moral and quiet
surroundings of a mid-Western town and mid-Western university,
imbued with the idea that his mission in life rested in making a
mining camp model itself on the same lines, and--the mining camp
couldn’t see it. His indomitable courage had saved him from
ridicule, his increasing love for the town had gained him respect,
and almost imperceptibly he had begun to wield considerable
influence in all ordinary matters not too intimately associated with
his ideas of reform.

Even Placer City, Murdock’s rival, admitted this, and Placer City
was farther away than it looked. The camps were visible to each
other, and on a clear day the residents of one could be observed by
those of the other with a pair of field glasses. Because of an
enormous cañon, however, that separated them to make way for the
river bed, necessitating a day’s journey for one to visit the other,
intercourse was of the most meager for all save the most energetic
and determined, who could shorten the time to five or six hours by
taking a perilous trail down one steep side and up the other.
