
Ring found the way to Placer City, and Mr. Ring was energetic. He
also discovered that there was no adequate job-printing plant in
Placer City, and that it offered a rich field for his efforts. Mr.
Ring was not one to spare effort.

“That’s one thing that maybe accounts for his sort of taming himself
down lately,” observed Fosdike to his friend Circumlocutory Smith.
“He sort of works off a lot of surplus steam by making a trip once
or twice a week to Placer, and every time he does twelve hours
grueling work climbing down one side and up the other, to say
nothing of a few miles extra walking drumming up printing jobs after
he gets there, it makes him less combative and reformative here at
home. Now if business would get good enough over there so he’d move
his whole blamed outfit across the gulch and stay there, it’d be
mighty big relief to Murdock.”

“I ain’t so sure about that,” the miner objected. “I think he’s
doing a heap of good for this camp and----”

“Oh, I forgot you was chock-full of admiration for him,” Fosdike
interrupted. “Also that he’d been such an all-fired good friend and
backer, and so on, of yours.”

“Just because he’s panned me a dozen times ain’t got much to do with
it,” Smith insisted. “He’s explained it all to me, and I see his
side of it. It’s not me personally he objects to, so much as what I
represent. He can’t get it out of his head that I’m a gunman and a
danger to the community, instead of being the last man on earth to
go looking for trouble.”

Fosdike chuckled, threw up his hands, wagged his head and retired.
If the man who had been the terror of some thousand miles of
territory before he turned peaceful couldn’t be made to view his
past reputation as others viewed it, it wasn’t a friend’s duty to
enlighten him. Even Pearl Brown couldn’t be convinced that Smith
wasn’t dangerous and had once practically requested him to keep away
from the Alamo, after the cold announcement that he was welcome only
without his battery.

Pearl Brown again did the unexpected when she met Smith on the
street that afternoon, halted him and put out her hand.

“See here,” she said abruptly, when he stared down at her in
astonishment, “I try to play a fair game. When I first came here and
saw you, I thought--well--I thought you were probably the same as you
were when I first knew you by sight, and of you by--by what I heard.
I was mistaken. It seems you aren’t the kind of a man you used to
be, or that I took you to be.”

His keen eyes, whimsical, curious, appraised her.

“That’s all right,” he said. “I like people who’ve got the stuff to
come around and say so when they find out they’ve made a mistake;
but---- Wonder if you’d mind my asking you what made you change your
mind about me?”

To his considerable surprise, she avoided his gaze, fixed her regard
on the tip of a neat little shoe she thrust out, and seemed
embarrassed by his question.

“You needn’t tell unless you want to,” he said.

As if spurred by this she retorted: “There’s no reason why I
shouldn’t tell anything I want to. The last time I met that man Ring
I took a little dig at him, and suggested that perhaps he’d better
favor you in the _Weekly Star_ for a while, because I was getting
more than my share of his attention. Sort of turn about is fair
play. And he told me that if I were half as good a woman as you are
a man, I’d not need to be ashamed of myself. Said the difference
between us was that you at least knew what decency was and are now
trying to be decent and--well--the inference was obvious. So I smacked
his face for him and went on about my business; but it started me to
thinking, got me curious, caused me to ask questions about you, and
that’s the whole of it. I’ve said some mean things to your face, and
it’s to your face that I make my apology.”

“That’s the way to do it, I reckon,” the miner agreed, with an
unusual note of jubilance in his voice, as if at last he was really
winning his way to public acceptance of his reformation. “And--you
offered to shake hands a moment ago. I didn’t, because I never shake
hands with an enemy; but now---- Do you mind? We’re friends, aren’t
we?”
