
She took the hand that he suddenly held out to her, and something in
its warmth of grasp seemed to soften the habitual defensive hardness
of her eyes. It was quite like a reconciliation between two
first-class fighters after a feud.

“Needless to say you are welcome in the Alamo whenever you care to
come,” she said, moving away.

“I don’t drink,” he answered.

As if this was a reflection on her business, she turned suddenly and
left with him a parting shot. “Probably it’s a good thing for the
camp that you don’t!”

He believed he caught the faint notes of mocking laughter as she
walked away, and wondered what she meant by that. He stood watching
her for a moment and thought:

“She walks like Cathcart used to, but she does talk like Riggs. I
wish I knew which she is. Humph!”

Almost absently, and pondering over many things, he made his way
past the saddler’s and down the somnolent street to the Miners’
Emporium.

“Can’t tell whether Pearl Brown’s a Riggs or a Cathcart,” he said,
and, the hour being idle and the storekeeper lounging, retailed his
recent encounter.

“Great Scott!” exclaimed Fosdike. “That young woman and you become
friends, and young Ring is out sticking up for you! That young
man---- What do you think of this? He ambled in here a while ago, calm
as you please, just as if him and me hadn’t been at cross ends ever
since he came to this camp and says:

“‘Fosdike, I’m not a man to bear a grudge. Also you sell good stuff,
straight and clean. I’m going to buy anything I need here after
this. Here’s an order.’

“Then he throws down a little list and walks out. Can you beat it?”

“Does seem as if folks in this camp were sufferin’ a change of
heart,” the miner agreed. “About time one of those revivalist chaps
came along, I reckon. Seems too good to last. Ought to be clinched
while the going is good, before anybody can backslide. Afraid
something mighty bad’s about to happen.”

But nothing did. Save for its occasional brawls and squabbles, all
in the natural course of events, Murdock went its peaceful way. From
the Placer City side, it looked clean and calm, sprawled in the
sunshine, on the afternoon when Circumlocutory Smith and his partner
Jim Clarke visited Placer City to inspect some secondhand mining
material that they felt they could, in their increasing prosperity,
afford.

Their examination had been made and, from the seclusion of a tavern
porch where they had dined, they were considering their homeward
journey when they saw a group forming in the middle of the road but
a short distance away. In the center of it, a tall man held a
newspaper in his clenched fist and waved it aloft as if it were a
banner of hate. Voices were becoming louder and some one shouted:
“Get a rope!” To this, came another shout: “No, no! Tar, feathers
and a rail!”

“Looks interesting,” Smith said, with a grin, as he stood by the
veranda rail.

“Anyhow, we got a seat in the gallery to watch it,” his partner
remarked, as he caught a pillar, jumped upward, and stood on top of
the rail, from which vantage point of height he could overlook the
excited mob.

Suddenly the crowd began to mill wildly as if its center were a seat
of disturbance and just as suddenly Jim yelled:

“Hey, pardner! I see a flaming redhead in the middle of that muss
and--yes---- It’s that fellow Ring from Murdock and oh, boy! But isn’t
he putting up some fight!”

“Ring? Ring? Come on, Jim! We got to help him out. It’s too
one-sided. Come on! Into this bunch we go!” The miner vaulted the
rail as he spoke, and charged.
