
Close at his heels, with all the wild abandonment of fealty, youth,
and the love of a good mix-up came his six-foot partner. They were
side by side when they hit the outskirts of the crowd like a twin
battering-ram, and men taken unawares from behind were hurled right
and left as if they were but twigs in the path of a cyclone.

The younger man yelled as he charged, the elder went voicelessly and
with shut teeth and jaw, a hard, veteran fighting man who wasted
neither breath nor motion. The younger man struck with the quick,
timed precision of a trained boxer, the elder with forethought to
inflict the most damage.

They gained the center before they met any resistance, and there in
the vortex they fought above the prone body of The Reformer, who was
down and out. One man reached around and kicked at the fallen man
with a heavy boot, despite Smith’s endeavor to bring a truce, and
not until then did the miner become angry. With cold malice, he
knocked the man down, picked him up, battered his face again and
then, exercising his enormous strength, seized him and threw him at
the heads and faces of his friends.

Two or three of the man’s supporters started an angry charge when
abruptly a loud voice shouted:

“Don’t! Don’t! Stop! Look out, or he’ll shoot! Don’t you see who it
is, you fools! It’s Smith, the killer!”

And such was the dread reputation of the miner and ex-gunman that
the charge melted into a withdrawal. Smith and his partner, back to
back, stood in a clear space above the fallen editor. They breathed
heavily from their efforts, and the younger man, grinning as if not
half satisfied, exposing his fine white teeth, wiped a cut on his
temple, and called:

“Next!”

“You know who that red-headed stiff you’re fightin’ for is, don’t
you, Smith? That’s the pup that abused you in his newspaper.” The
man who had shouted the warning restraint which had quelled the
fight pointed at the fallen Ring.

“Yep. I know,” the miner answered. “But I don’t know what the
fight’s about and why it took twenty men to jump him.”

“We didn’t jump him. He jumped us,” the man declared.

“About the time you were going to gang him, and tar and feather him,
I reckon,” Smith retorted dryly, and then, as if the matter were
ended, he suddenly moved toward them waving his arms and shouted:
“Clear out of this. Get! We’ll take care of Ring. It looks like
you’ve damaged him enough, even if it did take twenty of you to do
it. Get!”

Some of the men, regaining their sober senses and perhaps a little
shamed by the scorn in the rugged old gun fighter’s tones, shrugged
their shoulders and walked. Others moved somewhat sullenly, as if
reluctant to end the matter, until they met Smith’s stare, which
decided them that it was well enough to drop the matter. Only one or
two remained when the miner knelt down beside the unconscious
reformer, tried to rouse him, failed, and then said:

“Here, Jim. Give us a hand. We’ll get him to that drug store across
the street.”

No one dared interfere with them as they carried out their purpose.
They laid Ring out on a prescription table and stripped him when a
doctor arrived, and Smith scowled at the mass of bruises exposed
while the doctor made an examination. He looked up through his
spectacles and shook his head doubtfully.

“Lot of ribs broken in,” said the physician. “Frightfully bruised.
Looks to me as if a dozen men must have taken turns in trying to
kick him to death. Don’t know whether he has any internal injuries,
but--he’s in bad shape. Serious, I’m afraid. It’s a hospital case,
really, and--the nearest is down at Georgeville, as you probably
know--a dozen miles.”

“All right! Hospital it is. Out you go, somebody, and hire the best
carriage or buggy there is in the town. Quick! Never mind the price.
That goes for you too, doctor. You’re coming along!” Smith snapped
his orders impatiently and said to his partner: “Jim, you go with
whoever knows where that rig can be hired, and see that it comes
back on the run, too. Hurry up now!”

The doctor tried to protest that he could be of no assistance, but
the miner silenced him with:

“Can’t tell. However, you’re going. Anything we can do to make him
comfortable on the trip?”

“May have to use morphia on the road. I’ll get my special case.
There’s a broken wrist here that we’ll bandage first. You might get
some blankets from the hotel.”

It was a long time before Circumlocutory Smith forgot that ride in
the only semicomfortable conveyance that could be obtained, a
disused stagecoach that swayed and swung as if its springs and
leathers had become limber through long neglect, and whose woodwork
creaked dismally, like the bones of an aged man driven to painful
effort. Smith sat and watched the crusader, who lay motionless on
the floor of the vehicle, the young man who had once been his enemy,
whom he had once before saved from a mob, and for whom he had a
strange affection.

“Right or wrong--always brave!” Smith thought admiringly. “Too brave.
Foolishly brave. Never cared about the odds or how they came, one or
a hundred, with fists, clubs or guns. All the same to Ring!
And--always ready to fight for what he thought was right! Be a pity
if he’s got his by being kicked to death by a mob of boneheads, not
one of whom had the courage to go after him single-handed. Wonder
what it was all about?”
