
This curiosity grew within him until, when they stopped the horses
pulling the stage, he got out and changed places with Jim who had
been sitting beside the driver.

“You got any idea what started all that fuss back there?” Smith
asked the man, when they were once more on the road.

“Reckon I have,” the driver returned. “I heard most of it, and seen
most of it--out of my haymow winder.”

“Well?” demanded the miner.

“Looky here. I ain’t lookin’ for no trouble with you, and somehow it
seems you’re a friend of his, although why the hell you should be,
beats me! But---- He got too damn fresh. He’s taken to comin’ over to
Placer from Murdock lately, to try to drum up business. And he got a
lot of it, too, folks say. Then he gets a nettle in his brain
blankets that Placer City’s a wicked place, and he comes out in his
Murdock rag and has a whole column tellin’ how rotten things are run
over in our town, and among other things he hits ‘undesirable
tenants’ in certain houses in Placer City. He hops the mayor for it
and says the mayor owns the houses. That was the mayor you fixed up
with a busted nose, a few front teeth knocked out, a pair of black
eyes and a tin ear. Humph! And the way it started!”

He grunted and, when urged to proceed, said, half turning in his
seat: “You see, it was this way. Ring stood for all the mayor had to
say to him and what one or two others had to offer until the mayor
says:

“‘You got a hell of a right to talk, you or any other Murdock man,
when you’ve got a thing like that Pearl Brown runnin’ your most
decent dump--a place like that Alamo.’

“Then the mayor called this Pearl Brown person a name or two, but
hadn’t got through when this Ring--the red-headed, cantankerous
cuss!--yells:

“‘Whatever her business is, Pearl Brown’s a straight, square, decent
woman personally, and I’ll teach you to keep your tongue off her!’
And with that he hauls off and lams our mayor. Little fool! Why, the
mayor could lick him with both hands tied behind him!

“Then it just seemed as if everybody that had it in for Ring, as
well as them that tries to stand in with the mayor, all want a piece
of Ring for a souvenir. And I reckon they’d have got it, too, if you
and that big pardner of yours hadn’t butted in. You sure did knock
seven kinds of hell out of the mayor, and if it was anybody but you,
you can bet you’d not have got away with it. Folks do say that you
got a habit of fillin’ up cemeteries when you get riled, and so--
well--you got away with it.”

Smith sat hunched forward in his seat, his stare fixed on the
working haunches of the wheel horses, his mind rambling over what he
had heard. There was no use in trying to avoid a past reputation as
a killer, no sense in striving to be a man of peace who wished for
nothing more than nonmolestation, quietude, comfort, security. He
was and would be, so far as he could foresee, wherever he went,
Trigger Smith who “fanned” his gun from the hollow of his side and
who traveled in a cloak of security because men were afraid of him.

But this other matter was of more interest and puzzled him. This
matter of that red-headed firebrand Ring, the Reformer, always
striving to reform something that had neither inclination nor intent
to be reformed, getting mauled and kicked and beaten, perhaps to
death, defending that young woman, Pearl Brown, who had defied him
and his efforts until it had become a feud. Why should Ring fight
for her when he himself had always fought her?

Smith at last gave it up as a problem insolvable, inexplicable. His
brain wasn’t slow when it came to analysis of human motives, but it
was bewildered by this situation. It was beyond his experience. And
he was still pondering perplexedly, over this when the old vehicle
pulled into Georgeville, rocked through its unpaved streets in a
cloud of summer dust, and drew up at the two-story, veranda-fronted
frame building, white-painted, with green blinds, that was then the
only hospital within a wide radius.
