
The miner stood by with hands thrust into his pockets when a nurse,
assisted by his mining partner, carried The Reformer in on a
stretcher, and, still with hands in pockets, walked to and fro
outside while awaiting the verdict.

“We can tell you nothing about it, except that his injuries aren’t
fatal unless something internal shows up,” the doctor from Placer
told Smith, after an hour’s wait. “There was no use in your making
me come here with you, and I’m off for home again. Now about my
fee----”

“Make it whatever it’s worth and take it out of that,” Smith said,
thrusting a well-filled wallet toward the medical man.

The physician selected a twenty-dollar bill and handed the leather
back. The miner extracted an additional ten-dollar bill and pushed
it out.

“To have you with us has been worth that to me,” he said. “Now I’ll
go in and powwow with these hospital folks. I want Ring to pull
through. I don’t agree with him on much of anything, but--well--he’s
too good to lose. Also he’s from my own town--a Murdock man. Guess
that’s reason enough. Good-by. Thanks.”

Ring was still unconscious when the partners, mounted in a mountain
buckboard hired from the livery stable, turned toward the Big Divide
and Murdock, and heard the driver’s whip crack and his voice bawl:
“Gid-dap!”

It was long after dark when the big miner trudged down the quiet
street of Murdock and gained the front of the flamboyantly lighted
Alamo. He had never passed through its doors since that night when
its proprietress had humiliated him by telling him that no gunman
was welcomed or wanted in her place; but now he entered stolidly,
and walked across to the bar with its high seat and cash till at the
end, behind which sat Pearl Brown.

No one paid attention to his entrance. A so-called vaudeville act
was in progress and, had Smith taken time to heed, he might have
observed that the performer was a camp favorite. He was oblivious to
the big floor, crowded with tables and chairs, the wreaths of smoke
climbing upward toward the electric light clusters, the sobbing
sentimentality of the orchestra maundering an accompaniment to some
sobbingly sentimental ballad about “A violet I plucked from dear old
mother’s grave.”

The calm, defensive-eyed young woman in the high seat appeared
equally oblivious and unmoved by it, but her interest seemed invoked
when she discovered Smith standing at her elbow and heard him say:

“I come here to tell you something I think you ought to know. I
don’t know why I think you ought to know, only--there’s something
about it I can’t understand. That boy Ring--you know--the crazy guy
that runs the _Star_--was all beat up, hammered and kicked to a pulp,
this afternoon in Placer City, because he stuck up for you and
wouldn’t let that bunch of hairy-heels headed by their mayor call
you names that maybe you deserve, and maybe you don’t.

“I gave the mayor what Ring wasn’t strong enough to give him,” the
miner went on, “then took Ring to the hospital in Georgeville.
What’s left of him! He’s there now. They don’t know whether he’s
goin’ to pull through or not. But I thought you ought to know that
he got it for fighting for you and so, if you’ve got anything
against him, any old grudge, any hurt, you’d better forget it and
forgive it. Just as I’ve forgiven all he ever said about me after I
learned that, right or wrong, he’s a brave and honest boy.

“I been thinking over a lot of things this afternoon,” he continued,
“and I remembered that whenever Ring thought it was his duty to go
and tell somebody something, he went and did it, regardless of what
might come after. That’s why I got to thinking it my duty to come
and tell you, and it’s all I could think of to make myself feel that
I was as good as him in some ways. I think if he lives, he’d like me
a little better for it, and if he dies, well--maybe he’ll know and
appreciate what I feel, anyhow. So that’s that. I’m telling you this
so that if you’ve got any grudge against him, you’ll kind of square
the books by giving him credit for making a good finish on your
account. For he fought well!”

The proprietress of the Alamo sat apparently unmoved, emotionless,
unblinking, and watching him with her direct, inscrutable stare
while he talked. In that recital of his, there had been nothing of
that circumlocution which he was wont to practice when he considered
it wise, and which had earned him his new sobriquet. He had told her
all of the episode, its results and his motives for telling, in one
terse speech. There was no need to ask questions, or if so she
seemed to neglect them.

“Much obliged for telling me,” she said, and turned to give
attention to the changing of a bill.

When she had made the change, he was walking out through the door,
his broad, square shoulders swinging heavily as if wearied by long
effort.

“Tom!” she called sharply to her head bartender. “Tom, you look
after this thing here. I--I don’t feel very good. I’m--I’m going out
to-night and--I’m not coming back.”

And the head barman, astounded by any sign of weakness in this
employer of his, was still blinking when she walked into her little
private office in front of the building, slowly entered and slowly
closed the door behind her.

It was three weeks later when Circumlocutory Smith rode into
Georgeville. He had taken a direct trail that had not necessitated a
ride through his beloved camp of Murdock, and felt slightly ashamed
of his solicitude, a sentiment that he felt was rather womanish, not
at all what a man should really feel about anybody; but--Ring had
been pretty badly manhandled, and--also, he’d taken Ring to that
hospital and said he’d be responsible for all bills, and--a man ought
to pay his bills when they came due and maybe hospitals wanted their
money every week and---- Hang it all---- How was that boy coming along,
anyhow? Was he going to pull through? And if not--well--some of those
murderers over there in Placer would have cause to remember him,
Trigger Smith, if young Ring didn’t pull through. They would! You
could bet on that! Damn ’em!
