
I had a hamburger and two cups of coffee in a place where they'd never
seen me before. It would have been too hard to explain a twenty dollar
bill. Afterward I rented a room and soaked some of the accumulated dirt
out of my pores.

Next morning I bought a new suit and the things that go with it. By
noon I was wearing a hundred of that two hundred dollars. Most of the
rest was in my pocket.

Everything was fine, except that Dr. Leopold Moriss' smirking bloodless
lips and dead eyes, framed by his skin-covered jaw kept dancing before
me, taunting me, daring me to use that money without eventually showing
up to earn it.

I began to dislike him even more intensely. Instead of having lunch I
went into a cocktail lounge and had a few Bourbons straight. When their
warmth began to soak in Dr. Leopold's smirking face faded.

It came back, though, and with it came his classroom voice.

"_I don't know who you are_," it taunted. "_If you never show up I
can't find you, can't do anything about it._" Its tones were laughing,
knowing, goading. I drank. The face faded, the voice became inaudible.

Three days later, and God knows how many quarts, I took that drink
every alcoholic dreads--the one you can't keep down.

I awoke a long time later and opened my eyes. Something vaguely
like the desk clerk was hovering over me. A loud voice was pounding
unmercifully against my tortured ears.

"Come on, get up and get out of here, you filthy bum," it was shouting.
"We've got no rooms for the likes of you in this hotel."

I shook my head to clear away the fog over my eyes. The indignant face
of a maid was staring at me.

"You ought to be ashamed," she said shrilly, "vomiting on the rug!
Where do you think you are, in the park?"

"Get a wet towel and bring him to," the desk clerk ordered....

I reached the precarious footing of the sidewalk with a feeling that I
had been rushed too much, and with the afternoon sun ejecting fiery red
shafts of searing pain into my brain through my punctured eye-balls.

People were staring at me as they passed. In an attempt to appear
casual I stuck my hands in my pockets. The fingers of my right hand
encountered something stiff, with sharp corners.

Swaying to maintain my balance, and casually whistling snatches of some
nameless tune, I pulled the thing out and held it up where I could
focus my eyes on it. It was Dr. Leopold Moriss' card.

I managed an uncertain about face and thumbed my nose at the entrance
to the hotel; only it was my ear, and my thumb bumped it so painfully
that the pleasure I had anticipated at my insult was destroyed.

When my consciousness settled into enough stability to be aware of
outside impressions once more, I was in a taxi, bumping along a
cobblestone street. There were no springs on the cab, and the back of
the driver's head sneered at me and dared me to open the door and jump
to my death.

I wondered where I was being taken. Then my eyes caught the white
rectangle still held in my fingers. The doctor's card. So I was on my
way at last.

On my way? I was there! The taxi had swerved abruptly to the curb and
stopped. I slid forward off the seat. When the driver came around and
opened the door I managed to get up on my knees. That was all.

He opened the door and stood there patiently. I studied the sidewalk
and tried to figure out how to make it from the position I was in. I
gave up, and appealed to him with my eyes.

"Here we go," he said good naturedly, lifting me out and balancing me
carefully on my feet. "The fare is a buck eighty-five."

"Help me up the steps," I said, stalling. I was trying to remember if I
had any money left. I had a strong suspicion I hadn't.

His hands held me up and pushed me across the walk and up the steps
while I fumbled in a fruitless search of my pockets.

At the top of the steps my fingers encountered the cool smoothness
of a piece of paper in my coat pocket. I pulled it out and held it up
to the driver. He steadied me against the frame of the door. Then he
counted out change, closing my fingers over the money.

The sound of the taxi pulling away from the curb let me know I was on
my own. It was a diminishing yellow spot far down the street.

The door frame was white set in brick. The door was stained oak. I
reached out to lift the knocker and saw I had a fist full of money. I
reached out with the other hand. It had the card in it. I hooked the
little finger under the knocker and lifted it, letting it fall. It
emitted a feeble tap.

After a while I saw the door moving inward. Pausing in my futile
stabbing for my pockets, I lifted my eyes slowly, beginning with the
shapely hips encased in spotlessly clean watermelon red, past the slim
waist with its black belt, pausing at the firm lift of the breast,
jumping to the smooth neck, and finally coming to the face with its
smooth contours, red lips, blue eyes lit with questioning curiosity,
and iridescent waves of spun brown hair.

Not daring to talk, I mutely held out the card.
