
Her graceful curves of eyebrows lifted just a trifle as she looked at
the card. Then her eyes surveyed me again, quickly.

"Won't you please come in?" she asked, stepping backward invitingly.

I went past her with an attempt at dignity. The door closed behind
me. Her feet tapped pertly on the foyer floor as she went past me and
opened another door.

"Wait in here Mr. Stevens," she said, her voice rich in velvet
overtones. "I'll tell my father you're here."

I ducked my head at her in acquiescence and went past her into the
room, a luxurious library.

The door closed softly as I dropped into the soft enfoldment of a
pillow-lined barrel chair. Abruptly I sat up, staring at the blank face
of the closed door, my eyes large and round.

She had called me by name!

I was still staring at the door when it jerked open. Dr. Leopold Moriss
strode in closing it after him, his steps and motions jerky and swift.

"Well, well, well," he said. "So you came after all."

"How did your daughter know my name?" I asked.

His shoulders arched back in a gesture of amusement.

"She should know," he said. "I've done nothing but talk about January
Stevens this and January Stevens that for the past two months."

"Two months?" I echoed dumbly.

"The detective agency I put on the job of finding you did an almost
impossible job," he went on, in high good humor. "They followed you
from the time you moved out of your bachelor apartment three years
ago, to Los Angeles, Seattle, through Kansas, and right back here to
Chicago again. When they found you they came and got me, and pointed
you out to me in the park."

"I don't get it," I said, bewildered. "That kind of a search would
cost plenty. After paying that kind of dough I can understand your
willingness to throw two hundred after it in a--childish gesture. But
why? Since you know me, you must know I was kicked out of the Bentley
Research Laboratories because I refused to account for five thousand
dollars of research funds."

"I know more than that," Dr. Leopold Moriss said, crisp sureness in his
tones.

"What do you mean?" I asked woodenly.

"Let's just say for the present, January," he said, "that I know why
you refused to account for those funds."

"Let's just say goodbye," I said, staggering to my feet. I started for
the door.

"Sit down, you drunken bum," he said.

"Why you--" I snarled, turning toward him sober with rage, my fingers
constricting.

He sat there, grinning at me, undisturbed by my threatening posture. As
if to flaunt his unconcern in my face he took out a long cigar and lit
it nonchalantly.

I stared into his lifeless eyes through the screen of freshly
generated blue smoke and sat down slowly.

He looked back at me, his face expressionless behind the cigar. My rage
subsided gradually.

"That's better," he said finally. From that moment I hated him.

Then the door opened. The girl in the watermelon red dress entered,
wheeling a tray crowded with white sandwiches, green pickles and
steaming black coffee.

I scowled at the dream from heaven pushing the service cart, a friendly
smile on her red lips, feeling a sense of defeat, of being crowded into
a corner.

"No thanks," I said harshly. "My stomach couldn't hold even the coffee
right now." I jerked my eyes away from hers, past Dr. Leopold Moriss,
to the curtains on the windows.

"Get him a big glass of half tomato juice half grapefruit juice," the
doctor said. "He can hold that down. It'll make him feel better."

I continued to hold my eyes on the curtains, but I knew that I was
licked. Whipped. Beaten into submission. When I heard the pert
footsteps return and felt the cold roundness of the glass against my
hand, I turned and looked up into her smiling, sympathetic eyes.

"Thanks," I said gruffly.
