
The cold liquid stayed down, soothing the raw walls of my stomach. I
half closed my eyes, experiencing the first pleasant body sensation
since the warm glow of that first drink three or four days before.

I watched shapely legs below the swishing dress as they went across
the room to a desk. When they returned I looked up to see a cigarette
between fingernails the same shade of red as the dress. I followed the
slender fingers to the slim wrist, up the graceful, slightly tanned arm
to the short sleeve, and from there my eyes jumped to her smiling red
lips.

"I'm Paula, January," she said.

"Oh yes, January," Dr. Moriss' voice broke in. "This is my daughter,
Paula. Her mother died many years ago. There's just the two of us,
besides the handyman."

I took the cigarette from her fingers without taking my eyes away from
her face. She snapped a lighter and lit it the same way. I inhaled
deeply, letting the smoke out slowly.

"Glad to know you, Paula," I murmured.

"I think you'd better leave us now, Paula," Dr. Moriss broke in in his
school teacher voice. "January Stevens and I have a lot to discuss."

"We can talk later, if at all," I turned on him angrily. "Two or three
days from now, after my stomach will hold food down."

"We'll talk now," he said with maddening calmness. "Three days from now
you'll have had time to think. You'll refuse to talk. Just like you let
yourself be branded a thief rather than talk before."

I reached out and picked up a cup of coffee from the tray. With slow
deliberation I poured the black liquid into the empty glass that had
held my tomato and grapefruit juice. There was a large plate glass
mirror on the wall across the room. I threw the empty cup at it without
rising from my chair. The mirror shattered.

Dr. Moriss looked back and forth from me to the broken mirror, like a
spectator at a tennis match, the same kind of interest portrayed on his
face.

"Why did you do that?" Paula asked, her eyes flashing fire.

"He did it because he likes you, Paula," the doctor's maddeningly
unperturbed voice said. "If he didn't like you he would have thrown it
at me." He puffed mockingly at his cigar, his eyes squinting through
the smoke.

"You _are_ expensive to know, January," Paula purred. The sound of her
heels on the bare floor near the door jerked my eyes from Dr. Moriss'
face.

"Don't leave," I said hastily.

"Why?" Paula asked, turning, her hand still on the knob.

"Because--" her father began.

"Shut up!" I snapped. "I'll tell her myself. Because if you do I might
kill your father before I walk out of here."

Dr. Moriss nodded agreement, puffing contentedly, his features mocking
me through the haze.

"He's afraid, Paula," he said abruptly. "It's the same fear that made
him destroy his research and all the bills for materials and his notes,
and let them smirch his name." He lifted on his elbows and leaned
toward me. "The same fear that made you an alcoholic bum, January. But
I'm going to get under that fear and find out what you discovered."

"You think so?" I sneered, my voice sounding reedy to my ears.

"Yes," he said. "You see, I've got to. I know everything you
know--except what made you afraid."

"You think so?" I repeated monotonously.

"Yes," he matched my monotony. "Everything except that. I'll prove it
to you. I know how you built the synthetic brain. I know how you built
the robot body. I even know how you charged the brain. I even know that
that Boston Bull Terrier pet you had at your feet while they questioned
you, and which followed you out the door when you left, disgraced, _was
not a living creature_!"

I lifted my hands and looked at them. They were trembling so much their
outlines were blurred.

"Show him to his room," Dr. Leopold Moriss said suddenly. "Keep a
generous supply of grapefruit and tomato juice near him."

"You heard what the man said." Paula soothed gently, tugging at the
shoulder of my coat.

At the door I turned ponderously. Dr. Moriss was sitting there, his
eyes on me, puffing at his cigar. Dully I turned away, following Paula
into the hall. The door closed....
