
The bed was soft. The kind you sink down into, surrounded by billowing
piles of shiny pink satin, fluffy orchid wool, white sheets, and an
atmosphere of apple blossoms, with your head resting on down softer and
warmer than your mother's breast.

The pajamas were new and my size, obviously bought in anticipation of
my showing up.

I stood teetering in the middle of the bedroom, looking at them, the
sound of water running into a tub coming from the adjoining bathroom.
Tears forced themselves into my eyes. Hot scalding tears.

Paula stood less than three feet from me, an eager expression on her
face, like a Spaniel wiggling in expectation of voiced approval.

I turned and staggered blindly toward the door. I wanted to get out.
I felt strangled. I couldn't breathe, couldn't possibly get another
breath of air until I got out of this house and felt my feet on God's
pavement again. I fumbled for the knob, groaning in frantic desperation
to escape.

My fingers settled around the knob. I jerked the door open and started
out into the hall.

The placid face of a man twice my size, radiating peace and good will,
blocked the doorway. I blinked at him blearily, backing away a step or
two. He blinked back like a simpleton trying to understand geometry.

"Oh, January," Paula said behind me. "This is Carl Friedman, our
Jack-of-all-work."

"Pleased to meet you, January," the giant said, sounding like an
uncouth character concentrating on not saying pleeze t'meetcha.

My snarl was purely animal as I slammed the door on him and turned back
into the room. I stood there, swaying and holding my head for a minute.

"All right," I gave up. "Get out. I'll take a nice warm bath and bury
myself in apple blossoms. Then you can bring me some grapefruit juice
and radiate at me like a harvest moon. Only get this straight. I hate
your old man. I hate him more every minute."

"That's all right," Paula said, going to the door and opening it. "I
hate him too--sometimes."

Carl backed away far enough for her to get out. She flashed me a
sympathetic smile. The door closed. I was alone. With the smell of
apple blossoms. And my hate.

I took off my clothes and climbed into the tub. The temperature was
just right. I sighed in reluctant contentment, splashing around a
little to help the warmth soak in.

"What made you afraid, January?" Dr. Moriss' voice came from the
doorway.

I catapulted to my feet, water cascading off my body over the edge of
the tub onto the floor. Glaring at him I carefully stepped out of the
tub, my hands working in choking motions.

He watched me with that air of detached interest he would have used in
observing the motions of a monkey in a zoo. I glared at him another
moment, then turned my back on him, drying myself with the thick
turkish towel.

"What made you afraid, January?" It was patient repetition, insistent
and unemotional. A school teacher repeating a question to a stubborn
pupil.

I ignored it. When I finished drying and turned to go out, he was gone.

There was a pitcher of bright red liquid with ice cubes floating in
it on the table by the bed, and a glass of it already poured sitting
beside it. I splashed it down my throat with loud swallows, struggled
into the pajamas, and slid under the covers. It seemed only an instant
later--

"What made you afraid, January?" When I opened my eyes the hand shaking
my shoulder stopped. "What made you afraid, January?"

I stared without answering. Finally I closed my eyes to blot out that
serene disinterested, hateful face. When I opened them again it was
gone. I cursed with the vocabulary of the scum from New York to San
Francisco. His psychological game was obvious, now. He hoped to wear me
down, drive me to the point where I would tell him what I would never
tell anyone, as the price of peace. He'd wake me again as soon as I
fell asleep. He'd wake me again and again and again. And again....

"What made you afraid, January?"

"Go 'way," I murmured drowsily.

"What made you afraid, January? What made you afraid?"
