
The door opened. After a moment of suspense during which I kept my
breathing slow and deep it closed softly. Padded footsteps came across
the rug.

"January!" The doctor's voice was impersonal and insistent. His hand
was gripped on my shoulder, shaking me. "Why were you afraid, January?"

I kept my eyes closed for a moment, mumbling protests. Inside I was
laughing to myself, gloatingly. His voice was no longer torture. It was
the senseless repetition of a parrot.

Suddenly it angered me. I opened my eyes, glaring, a corner of my mind
thrilling to the beautiful way my emotions were giving authenticity to
my acting.

"Why are you afraid, January?" the doctor repeated, his calm face
hovering above me.

I shoved his hand away, sneering at him, and sat up. The movement sent
stabs of pain through my head. I gripped my head in my hands, groaning.

"Drink this," Dr. Moriss ordered.

I looked up. He was holding the glass of tomato juice toward me,
the tomato juice containing something to make me sicker. I felt the
sneering smile distort the sensitive skin of my face as I reached out
deliberately and took the glass from him. I looked into his dead eyes
while I lifted it to my lips. Then I drank it.

I set the empty glass down on the stand.

"Get out!" I rasped. "Leave me alone."

"What made you afraid, January?"

Suddenly nausea gripped me. Blindly I struggled out of bed to the
bathroom. As I went I felt a bitter laughter welling up silently in my
mind.

"What made you afraid, January?"

I was retching. That was genuine. I clamped my hands over my ears. That
was acting, because Dr. Leopold Moriss had lost his power to torture
me.

"What made you afraid, January?"

With an animal snarl I straightened and turned on him, my eyes blinded
with tears produced by the retching, my chin wet with vomit. He caught
my flailing arms easily, folding them over my chest and pinning me
against the wall.

"What made you afraid, January?"

I began to cry. It was an act, but my condition made anything
resembling crying come out authentic.

I felt his hands drop from my arms. Still blubbering as though
completely broken, I slid slowly to the tile floor, letting my head
drop.

"All right, I'll tell you," I said weakly. A chill shudder shook my
body. I buried my face in my arms resting on my knees.

"No, January!" It was Paula's voice. My head jerked upright. She was
standing in the doorway, the living image of anger. The doctor had
turned toward her, irritation showing on his face. "Dad," she said, her
eyes flashing blue fire at him, "if you don't stop I'll get the police."

Alarm coursed through me. She was endangering my plan. I dropped my
head back in the cradle of my arms to hide my expression.

"Paula!" the doctor was saying in exasperation. "Leave us--"

"I was afraid," I cut in, making my voice sound utterly listless and
defeated, "of what I knew I would do unless I stopped my experiments
and destroyed them.

"I had transferred the mind of a dog into a robot duplicate of its
own body. The dog was a pet. It didn't know it was no longer in its
own body, the body that had died when the mind pattern in the brain
was lifted out and transplanted into the colloidal dielectric brain.
It didn't know what had happened, so although it was often puzzled by
things, it didn't mind.

"But I knew what the next step would be!" I lifted my head and stared
at the doctor, avoiding Paula's eyes. They were standing there, holding
their breath, waiting for my next words. I let my head drop into
concealment in my arms again.

"The next step would be a robot body for myself," I said mechanically,
tonelessly. "I would build it and enter it. And I would never be able
to re-enter my normal body, because it would die in the transfer.
I would be immortal--but at an awful price. The price of normal
life, loving, being loved, and someday getting married and having
children--and a mother for those children.

"And yet I knew that I would build that robot body and transfer my mind
to it--if I kept on. So I destroyed my work, my reputation, my ability
to earn the kind of money it would take to do what I didn't have the
will not to do, if I could."

I looked up cautiously, my face lax, my eyes half veiled, to see how
they were taking what I was saying. Paula's face was a mask of pity
and sympathy. Her father's was one of fixed attention and belief. I
dropped my head again and muffled my voice.

"Pepper--my dog--not comprehending what was wrong with him, grew
more and more bewildered. He got run over a month later. It couldn't
kill him, but it wrecked his robot frame. I smashed his colloid
brain and buried him to put his immortal mind out of its bewildering
confused--existence."

"But--" It was Dr. Moriss' voice, full of growing, pleased conviction.
"Then there was nothing you discovered other than what I've already
discovered and tried?"

"No," I lied. And he believed me.
