
The hours passed swiftly, with long gaps during which I slept,
unconscious of the conflict of hunger and alcohol starvation being
fought in every cell of my body. The sunlight through the lattice-work
of the Venetian blinds became a pleasant and welcome warmth. The song
of the persistent bird outside the window grew joyful, and something I
missed when it didn't come for a long time.

Paula sat on the edge of the bed and washed my face and ran an electric
razor over it while I basked in the pleasant rays from her deep
blue eyes. She fed me tall glasses of tomato juice spiked only with
grapefruit juice, and with cool, clinking ice cubes that caressed my
fevered lips....

"You're looking much better this morning, January," she said, leaning
back and inspecting her handiwork with the shaver. "Feel up to trying a
scrambled egg fried in butter, with golden brown toast and nice crisp
bacon?"

"And make the coffee black--and hot," I said.

"Yes, sir," she said in mock subservience.

She had her breakfast with me. The fluffy scrambled eggs and warm
toast began to nestle comfortably in my stomach, and Paula nestled
comfortably on the edge of the bed sipping her coffee, her hair radiant
flows of rich browns and mahoganies capturing and transmitting the
sunlight from the window.

Her red lips parted to reveal gleaming white teeth when she laughed
intimately, happily, at my running humor. I relaxed, my mind at ease,
Dr. Leopold Moriss momentarily forgotten....

She displayed my suit proudly on its coat hanger, freshly cleaned
and pressed, the stack of four new shirts still in their cellophane
wrappers. I watched her retreat from the room with something inside me,
my heart perhaps, hurting.

I stood in front of the bathroom mirror putting a knot in the tie. It
had been a long time since I'd had a choice of ties, ten of them. I
inspected it in the glass. Then the realization that it wasn't a new
tie rose to consciousness. It was Dr. Moriss'.

I tore it off, ripping the collar of the shirt in my anger. I stood
there, panting with emotion. My purpose was back! Slowly, like the
flames of a charcoal fire fanned by a gust of wind, the fire of hate
in my eyes died down, leaving only the glowing coals, which would be
unnoticed behind the mask of a smile.

I practiced that smile while I put on another shirt and knotted another
of Dr. Leopold Moriss' ties about my neck. I had played enough poker
in penny ante dives up and down the west coast during my wanderings to
perfect the lazy unrevealing poker smile.

There was a knock. Paula's voice sounded. "Are you dressed?"

"Come in!" I called.

Her eyes literally bathed me with admiration. She let the door slam
behind her without hearing it.

"That's right!" I said. "You've never seen me before when I looked like
a decent human being."

"Oh, I have too," she retorted.

"Do I look anything like you thought I would?"

"That's just it," she said. "You look _exactly_ like I dr-- hoped you
would." Then, like she was snapping out of a dream, "Dad wants you
downstairs. That is, he said to tell you he would like you to drop
into the study if you want to, but also to tell you you don't have to.
You're free to come and go as you please. He said expressly to tell you
that." She stopped breathlessly, the dreamy stare coming back into her
eyes.

"Why, sure," I said. "I guess I won't mind dropping into his study--too
much." I grinned. "Though I'd much rather ignore him and go out
someplace with you."

"That's a date," she said softly, wrinkling her nose at me, "after you
see dad."

We tripped lightly down the stairs hand in hand as if we had done it
hundreds of times before.

"That the door?" I asked, looking at the one she had ushered me through
when I had first arrived.

"Yes," she said.

I gently disengaged her hand and tapped her cheek with my fingers.
Suddenly I took her chin between my fingers and tilted her face up. She
looked gravely into my eyes. I bent to kiss her. Her red lips curved to
meet mine....

"You stay out here," I said gruffly.

I turned to the door. My hand touched it, hesitated, then twisted the
knob. On my face was the smile I had practiced.
