
Dr. Leopold Moriss was sitting as I had left him so long ago,
puffing contentedly on a long black cigar, his dead eyes staring
expressionlessly through the haze and streamers of blue smoke. I
stepped inside, closing the door behind me. Its click seemed to be the
spring that brought him to life.

"Well, January," he said like a school teacher welcoming a child who
has been down with the mumps, "you're looking better." He nodded.
"Much better. I hope you feel better, too." He shot me a questioning
look.

"Yes sir," I said.

"Nothing like getting rid of something," he said. "Getting it off your
chest so you can forget it--but that isn't what I wanted to see you
about." He leaned forward suddenly. "Is that lipstick?" he asked.

"No, tomato juice," I said dryly. He chuckled while I wiped it off.

"I'd like you to go over my research with me," he said, reverting
abruptly to his school teacher voice. "You're the only living man who
knows anything about it other than me. You'd like that?" He looked
almost pleading.

"All right," I said, shrugging indifferently.

"Not exactly keen about it?" he said, chuckling again. "After what you
told me I don't blame you. But it'll be good therapy, and with Paula in
the background I don't believe you'll have any trouble resisting the
temptation to gain immortality in a non-living robot."

"Maybe you're right," I said.

"With me it's different," he went on enthusiastically, paying little
attention to my comment. "I'm getting on in years. My wife has been
gone long enough so that she's just a memory. Paula is grown up.
There's nothing to keep me from making the jump. Of course, I get a
rather peculiar feeling every time I think of actually taking this
step, and waking up to find my original body lying there on the other
table, dead. But it doesn't alter the milk to pour it into another
bottle. And from my experiments with dogs there doesn't seem to be
any sensation accompanying the process of transfer. As a matter of
fact, with one dog I teased him with a juicy bone up to the instant of
transfer. The first thing he did in the robot body was look around for
the bone. Rapid as the flicker of a film."

"Yes, I know," I said dryly. "I found the same thing. No consciousness
of transfer or any other sensation. With the scanner-transferer it
takes place in less than a ten thousandth of a second. Every electrical
pattern of the brain complex is lifted out as an infinitesimal
segment and transplanted into the colloid dielectric complex without
alteration."

"Like a television eye scans a scene, in a way," the doctor added. "But
let's go out to my laboratory. I'll show you _my body_."

He laughed at the remark as he stood up and went to the door.

My hands were trembling visibly. I hid them in my pockets, gripping
them into tight fists to stop their trembling. I followed him into the
hall, holding onto my appearance of calm detachment with every ounce of
my will. The doctor had not yet found out what had made me afraid. But
he would. He'd find out when I was ready for him to.

"We're going out to the lab, Paula," Dr. Moriss was saying.

"Oh," Paula said, disappointment in her tone.

"Wait a minute, Dr. Moriss," I said. "Paula and I are going out for a
walk first."

"That can wait a half hour," he said. "I just want to show you--my
body." He chuckled.

"It can't wait," I said, "and even if it could I want a breath of fresh
air before going into that lab."

"He's been sick for three days without being out," Paula said. "Stop
being so selfish, dad."

"That's unkind, Paula," Dr. Moriss said, "but go ahead." He turned back
into his study.
