
We walked along sidewalks hand in hand, with kids playing catch and
hop-skip as hazards, and shapeless, harassed women struggling home
with overloaded shopping bags.

We heard the dying wail of sirens and saw a crowd at a corner, and
joined it to watch the callous internes lift a screaming woman onto a
stretcher while she repeated, "Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God," over and
over, and a white faced teenage boy kept repeating to an unsympathetic
but silent police officer, "I didn't see her. I didn't see her. I
didn't see her."

We had coffee and hamburgers in a smelly, ten stool hole-in-the-wall
served by a jovial, potbellied cook-and-waiter who sweated olive oil
profusely over a dirty griddle, while his cracked jukebox blared out
music from cracked records--and looked at each other and laughed when
we couldn't talk above the noise.

On impulse we climbed aboard a streetcar just as it was starting up,
and grinned at the conductor when he yelled above the noise, "Watch
it. Wanta get killed?" And sat very close together while the ancient
monument to a past civilization thundered on, on what promised to be
its last trip.

And we got off and pretended we were lost. We went into pawnshops and
looked at second hand diamond rings, whose fires were dimmed by the
grimy sweat of the pawnbroker's fingers and the secret knowledge they
held within their secret carbon heart of broken romances and marriages,
and poverty that had led their former owners here to exchange a dream
that had shattered for a week's rent in a fourth rate hotel.

We bought a newspaper from a blind man, and had a coke in a corner
drugstore while we read it and worried about the world situation, and
a gaunt thing with brown bags under her eyes told the patient druggist
all her symptoms in a whining monotone.

We looked in windows at fur coats marked down from four hundred and
ninety-nine ninety-five. We bought a sack of popcorn in an automatic
vending machine that cheated on the amount, and fought over it until
it skidded out of our hands onto the sidewalk. We had our picture
taken together in a twenty-five cent booth, pretending to each other it
wasn't so we could sit with our heads together.

When our feet grew reluctant we looked about us and discovered we were
back home, and wondered with real surprise how that had happened, and
how our feet had known without us knowing.

I half turned to retreat, feeling a panic and a sense of having
left something undone or unsaid that should have been said. Paula
was looking at me, her eyes troubled, and suddenly I knew she felt
the same way, only there was a basic difference. She was holding
back her feelings about her father shuffling off his mortal body
for an imperishable one of non-living matter. And I? The thought
fled fearfully into my subconscious. There could be no turning back,
whatever the price.

I took Paula's hand, patted the side of her face until her smile
brightened again. Hand in hand we slowly walked toward the house, our
eyes on the drawn curtains of the study window behind which waited a
man whom I had grown to hate even more than I loved his daughter.
