
"I'm ready," the doctor said, relaxing on the table with no more
apparent concern than a man getting into a barber chair for a shave.

I buckled the straps with fumbling fingers, my thoughts racing. There
was not a tool in sight anywhere. Nothing that could cut that wire.

"We forgot to warm up the tubes!" Dr. Moriss exclaimed.

"You aren't as calm as you pretend to be," I chided, hiding the thrill
of triumph that rose in me. "As soon as I finish buckling the straps on
you and your future receptacle I'll warm up the circuit."

"Thanks, January," he said with relief.

I finished with him and went to the robot, the robot so soon to be
activated with the doctor's intelligence. I buckled the straps about
its inert form exactly the way I had done with the living.

"Why don't you turn the current on before doing that?" Dr. Moriss asked.

I smiled at him slowly. "Plenty of time," I said.

"What do you mean by that?" he asked. His eyes were suddenly sharp with
suspicion.

"Oh, nothing," I said, shrugging. "A minute won't make a big
difference will it?"

He studied me closely. My heart was beating against my ribs.

"I've changed my mind," he said abruptly, his fingers fumbling with the
buckle that would release his arms. "I'll wait until later to do this."

"No you don't!" I said, my calm deserting me. I leaped around the
tables. His fingers were trying desperately to open the buckle that
would free his arms. I slapped them away and stood over him.

"This is for those hours of torture," I said, leering into his blank
eyes. My fist crashed against the side of his jaw just in front of the
ear. He sank back, limp and unconscious.

It was better this way. I was glad it had happened. Now I could be
sure of what I did. I crossed the room to a bench and searched swiftly
through drawers of tools until I found a wire cutter. In a moment I
had clipped the blue coated wire where it was soldered to the red one.
Quickly, with sure movements, I fastened the cover back on the case,
threw the switch that sent electric current glowing through the cold
filaments of tubes, and returned the wire clipper to its drawer. And by
the time I had adjusted the two hoods into position over Dr. Leopold
Moriss' head and that of the waiting robot form, the meters on the
instrument panel showed that everything was ready for the final moment.
The moment I had been looking forward to, working toward; when I could
touch the switch that would begin the final act, completing my revenge.

My breathing was the only sound in the room as I stood for a moment
surveying everything to be sure. I grinned into the doctor's closed
eyes. It was too bad now that he wasn't conscious so that I could watch
his fear and horror, so that he could know before I jabbed down on that
switch what he had tortured me to discover.
