
The island is big, about five by fifteen miles, and it must have been
a fine piece of land. It still was, even though mucked everywhere with
white-to-greenish bird dung. There were steep hills on the mainland
side, marshes to seaward, and in the middle natural meadowland broken
by woods containing pine, and some beech and maple. We moored in a
small but fairly deep harbor at a wharf for loading foods. Our barracks
stood just off the wharf. In addition to all the necessities, there was
a two-way radio, marked "Use in emergency only", and a handbook with
information on approximate numbers of birds to be taken, locations
of nesting sites, and so on. Equipment, including snares and nets,
was stored in an equipment room. And there was a storeroom containing
packaged foods, no freezing or cooling necessary for preservation.

Behind the barracks stood a warehouse for storing processed birds, and
a shop with the processors themselves. Everything looked orderly and
efficient. A small plant supplied us with light and heat and power for
the machines.

We arrived in November. By December, the first sea birds began to
return to their nesting sites, a few at a time. Soon we were so busy
snagging them as they came to land that we had little time for anything
but work and sleep. Even so, Bill took the time to salt several dozens
of gannets and fulmars for future eating, and he was looking forward to
the eggs.

Spring and early summer soon rolled around, and we were collecting
young birds, the nestlings. So it went.

I can't say any of us liked the work. For one thing we all sickened
of the endless slaughter. For another, the stench and dirt were
overwhelming. The island should have been a fine place for living.
There were sheltered spots for houses, a small harbor, woodlots,
meadows for cattle and pigs, some bottom land for food crops, the sea
for fish--a fine location; but it was ruined by birds. It was a slimy,
stinking hell.

The birds flew everywhere in huge flocks, especially in the morning
when the gannets and fulmars came back from fishing at sea. Excrement
fell from the sky like a stinking sleet. We couldn't get away from the
smell or the smell away from us. It was in our clothing, hair, under
our fingernails. No watermen ever washed so often or so thoroughly as
we did, but the stink remained. We lost weight and appetite steadily,
for the packaged food tasted of excrement soon after it was opened, or
seemed to, which is just as bad.

However, by the end of June most of the birds had left, and we had our
helicopter inspection. The same man who was fascinated by the cold
remains of a couple of eggs in my kitchen was on this route, and we
cooked three or four of our chickens. His enormous appetite sharpened
ours, and we had a feast. He was almost tearfully grateful. By July,
the freighter had put in, loaded, and left. For the first time in many
months, we were unoccupied.

Bill and Joy immediately set about knitting a large drift net. They
were happily excited at the prospect of gilling large numbers of
government fish. As for me, I sat down to read a book on small animal
ecology.

I read that book through three times. I kept at it night and day, and
it was the hardest work I've ever done, because I wasn't reading just
to pass the time. There was a message in that book, I was sure of it, a
message from Carter, a man I liked and trusted.

By the time I began to get a glimmering of an idea as to what Carter's
message was, the boys had their net knitted and hung. I went back to
the book to find out what to do about this idea, and the boys sailed
out to drift the net. I waited for them in a sweat of impatience. They
came back at dawn the next day with a boat load of food fish. I met
them at the wharf.

"Bill," I said, "what are you going to do with that load of fish?"

Bill looked at the fish. He said with slow and tremendous satisfaction,
"I aim to eat them fish, George Henry."

"Bill," I said, "not even you can eat all those fish. I've got a
scheme. Save back some of the fish, sure. Let Joy smoke a few even. But
take the rest into Murdock tonight and sell them to Hornsby. He used to
buy my oysters. He'll buy your fish."

"What for?" Bill asked.

"Get some bootleg gin," I said.

"That makes sense. What else?"

"Rats," I said. "I want rats. Buy some traps or get Pete Younger to
make some. Not muskrats. Barn rats. As many as you can catch."

"Fish," Bill said. "Fish for rats. Boy, the birds has got you."

He gave in after a while, more to keep me good natured than for any
other reason, that and the gin. He came back with two dozen live,
healthy specimens, and watched with an open mouth as I let them loose.
