
The months passed, and I was worried. To drive the problem from my
head, I took the boat out and surveyed the shallow waters off the
island. I found something. I found a bed of oysters in broken rock,
a bed not marked on WFI charts, because you could see it hadn't been
worked for a long time. Later, I located clam beds on the marshy side
of the island. The damn place was a paradise, or might be, once those
birds were cut down, but I couldn't eliminate them by sheer slaughter
because of the WFI.

There didn't seem to be many rats around. December came and all the
filthy, stinking work with it, and still no rats. Once in a while, eggs
would be missing from occupied nests, and that was all. Gulls could
have gotten those. We toiled through stinking February, foul March,
odiferous April, and evil-smelling May. Still no rats.

I sent Bill back to the mainland for more; and by September, rats were
everywhere. Bill looked at me from his bunk one night and said, "I hope
you're satisfied."

I was more than that. I was terrified. They absolutely swarmed. It
was impossible to walk from the barracks to the boat at mid-day
without having to kick rats off the path. They consumed most of the
non-metallic gear in the boat, including the sail. So far, they hadn't
gnawed a way into our barracks store room, or we'd have literally
starved to death.

"Boys," I said, "just sit tight. Wait till December. These rats are the
best friends you ever had. They're going to make this island livable.
No more stink and stench."

"What," said Bill, "are you going to do with the rats when the birds
are gone?"

Joy merely moaned.

"We'll kill them."

"If they don't get us first," Bill said.

It was an awesome and bloody slaughter. The fulmars and gannets, most
of the gulls, some of the terns, were either wiped out or harried
off the island in a single season. And the island became a heaving,
moving, revolting mass of rats, and nothing but rats. They attacked us
on sight, from sheer hunger. Not a blade of grass grew anywhere on the
island, and rats are not grass eaters as an ordinary thing. There was
one hopeful sign. They were beginning to eat each other.

Day after day we were caged in our barracks. The constant squealing and
scratching under the barracks was bad enough. What made us desperate
was the fact that they had gnawed a way into the store room and most of
the packaged food was gone. We still had some smoked fish hung on the
rafters, and a few salted fulmars in the barrel, but that was all. It
was then that we remembered the two-way radio, marked "Use in emergency
only". Bill said, after weighing all the evidence coolly and carefully,
that this here, in his opinion, was an emergency.

I got WFI mainland and finally persuaded them to put me in touch
with Carter, Bird Stations Ecologist. I told him we were having a
little trouble with the genus Rattus, and would he, for God's sake,
do something about it, quick. I can still near him laughing. It was a
while before he could speak at all.

"Keep them at bay, general. I'll be over early tomorrow morning."

I don't believe any men have ever been so happy to see Carter as we
were.

"They'll balance," he said. "Starvation will do its work. I've brought
along a couple of pairs of barn owls. They'll help a lot. I see you
read that ecology book. Good job. Station virtually wiped out. I'm
sending supplies over in a week's time. Anybody wants to know, you're
supposed to be helping extend and restore the tern and gull colonies.
Wouldn't be a bad idea to try a few other animal experiments. Milder,
though. Smaller scale. Send canvas for a sail too."

He was gone before we could answer. The small freighter put in July
fifteenth. She had no cargo of processed birds to take back, of course.
The captain detailed a few men to unload our supplies, and we helped
them eagerly. There were six calves and heifers, two cows and a bull,
five pigs, one boar and two sows, several dozen hens and a rooster.
Best of all, there was a big case containing seeds: corn, barley, oats,
seed potatoes, melons, beets, kale, dozens of others. A plow and two
draught horses, mare and stallion. Several pounds of rat poison. A hand
forge and several tons of coke. Iron. A hundred pounds of linen twine
for nets, as well as ropes of all sizes. Canvas. Tools of all kinds. A
big medical kit.
