
In August, a little more than a year after his last visit, Carter set
his helicopter down at the wharf again.

After lunch in the barracks of baked fish, fresh milk, potatoes, salad,
and melons, he pushed back his chair and said, "I suppose you've been
wondering."

"We'd like to know," I said.

He nodded. "The mainland's going to pieces. So is the whole world. It
isn't just food. We can still produce that. Remember what you said
about the bad roads, bad telephones? You put your finger on it. So
much manpower, machinery, energy, material is used up in getting food
and processing it and distributing it, there isn't enough for other
things. A tenth of the world's population and a quarter of its total
power resources go into processing plankton alone. We are literally
eating ourselves to death. Utilities and services are breaking down
rapidly. No new dwellings of any kind have been built for ten years
or more. Oil is short, cement, iron, steel, coal, plastics, wiring,
radios, telephones, everything is in short supply and getting shorter.
Transport is staggering to a halt."

He paused, took off his glasses, and twirled them by one side piece.

"Many of us saw it coming. A few decided to do something. We thought
there should be undisturbed nuclei, a few able people with ample food
supplies. You are one such center. There are others at various bird
stations along the coast. You'll be joined shortly by a few more
people, young men and women, among them a trained nurse, a doctor, a
skilled carpenter, so on."

Bill cleared his throat.

"What you said, I guess it was all around me, only I never seen it, not
to put together. Just one thing. The manager at the Food Plant, he used
to stop and kid me about all the fish I'd stole from the government in
my time. He was abraggin' about how WFI had newer and better ways of
gettin' things done, always newer and better every year. How come they
couldn't keep caught up?"

"Bill, those new techniques that manager talked about were old stuff a
hundred, two hundred years ago. The applications are new, some of them,
but the basic ideas are old.

"The World Food Institute drew off all the scientific, inventive brains
of the world, and put them to chasing food. No time for basic research,
basic development; just time for tinkering and retinkering old ideas.
Been no new basic idea for a couple of centuries. Too much need for
immediate, practical results. The well is dry, and it won't be filled
again with a reservoir of new, big ideas, not in our time. Been living
off the past; and the present has caught up with us."
