
Larkin had been directing his words toward a young man named Smith.
Smith had inherited a great deal of money which was fine. But Larkin
wasn't too sure of his qualifications otherwise. "--the pyramids,"
Larkin was saying. "Would they have ever been built if the men up
above--the men with vision--had had to worry about a payroll?"

Smith regarded the Martians with not quite the impersonal stare of the
other six Earthlings. Once or twice he grinned back at them. "I'll grant
the truth of what you say," he told Larkin, "but what good were the
pyramids? They're something I could never figure."

Smith had a sardonic twist of mouth that annoyed Larkin. "Let's not
quibble, man. I merely used the pyramids as an example. Call them
Empire; call them any Empire on Earth from the beginning of known
history and let's face facts."

"Facts?" Smith asked. He had been looking at a six-foot-six Martian,
thinking what a magnificent specimen he was. If only they'd wipe off
those silly grins.

"Yes, facts. The building must be done. It is a law of nature. Man must
progress or not. And what empire can arise without free labor? Can we
develop this planet at union scale? Impossible! Yet it's crying to be
developed."

Cleve knocked the ashes off his cigar and frowned. Being a man of direct
action, he inquired. "Do you want your money back, Smith?"

The latter shook his head. "Oh no! Don't get me wrong, gentlemen. I'm
for empire first, last and always. And if we can lay the foundations of
one on the backs of these stupid creatures, I'm for it."

"I still don't like your--"

"My outspoken manner? Don't give it a thought, old man. I just don't
want to be all cloyed up with platitudes. If we're going to chain the
children of Israel into the house of bondage, let's get on with it."

"I don't like your attitude," Larkin said stubbornly. "In the long run,
it will benefit these people."

"Let's say, rather, that it may benefit their children. I doubt if these
jokers will be around very long after we start cracking the whip."

Dane was stirred. "The whip," he murmured. "Symbol of empire." But
nobody heard him. They were too busy listening to Larkin and Smith--and
watching the Martians.

The Martians stood around grinning, waiting patiently for something to
happen. Larkin's attitude toward them had changed again. First there had
been curiosity. Then a narrow-eyed calculation; now he regarded them
with contempt. The careful, studied checks and tests would be made of
course. But Larkin, a man of sure instincts, had already made up his
mind.

He stretched luxuriously. "Let's call it a day and turn in. Tomorrow
we'll go about the business at hand with clearer heads."

"A good idea," Cleve said, "but first, one little gesture. I think it
would be judicious." He eyed the Martians, settling finally upon one--a
male--standing close and somewhat apart from the rest. Cleve scowled.
Standing erect, he called, "Hey--you!" He interpreted the words with a
beckoning gesture of his arm. "Come here! Here, boy! Over here!"

The Martian reacted with a typically Earthian gesture. He pointed to his
own chest with one green finger, while a questioning expression
reflected through the eternal grin.

"Yes, you! On the double."
