
"I put them out there," Cleve said. "It seemed as good a place as any."

"Fine," Larkin rumbled. He wore boots and britches and a big,
wide-brimmed hat. He had on soft leather gloves. He looked like an
empire builder.

The Martians were standing around grinning at the pile of shovels lying
in the fuzz-bush. The Martians seemed interested and appeared to
communicate with one another in some imperceptible manner.

Larkin shoved through the circle of green men, pushing rudely. He
stopped, picked up one of the shovels; thrust it toward a Martian. The
Martian took it in his hands.

"It's very important that you _tell_ them--that you don't show them,"
Cleve said. "You must not do any of the work yourself."

"I'll handle it," Larkin snapped. "Now, you--all of you! Grab a shovel.
Pick 'em up, see? Pick 'em up! We've got work to do. A ditch to dig."

Larkin's pantomime was a universal language. "We start the ditch here.
Right here--you fella! Get digging! And put your back into that shovel.
Hit hard or maybe it gives the whip--understand?" Larkin made a
threatening motion toward the lash coiled at his belt.

Smith, already on the scene, turned as Evans and Dane arrived carrying
undefined plastic. They snapped the cylinders and chairs appeared;
chairs--and a table upon which Carter and Lewis, bringing up the rear,
placed a pitcher of beer, glasses and a box of cigars.

Cleve, the psychologist, looked with satisfaction upon the string of
Martians manipulating the shovels. "All right," he said. "Let's sit
down. Pour the beer, one of you."

"Allow me," Smith said. He fought to straighten the smile bending his
lips. He picked up the pitcher and poured beer into the glasses. It all
seemed so absurd; these grim-faced men acting out an asinine tableau.

Cleve caught the smile. "I wish you'd take this seriously," he said.
"It's a mighty touchy and important business."

"Sorry," Smith said, raising his glass. "Here's to empire."

Larkin was striding up and down the line of straining Martians. The
scowl had become a part of him.

_It's getting him_, Smith marveled. _Act or no act, he likes it.
Experiment or not, he's in his element._

The six men sat drinking their beer and watching Larkin. But only Cleve
was aware of the skill with which the man worked. The gradual
application of pressure; the careful moving forward from bog to bog with
the path of retreat always open. From sharpness to brusqueness. From the
brusque to the harsh. From the harsh to the brutal.

"Will you tell me," Smith asked, "why we have to sit here drinking like
a pack of fools? I don't like beer."

"I'm not enjoying it, either," Cleve said. "But you can certainly
understand that the roles must be set right from the beginning. They
must understand we are their masters, so we must conduct ourselves in
that manner. Never any sign that could be interpreted as compromise."

Larkin, satisfied with the progress of the entirely useless ditch, came
to the table and raised a glass of beer. He wiped the foam from his
mustache and asked, "What do you think?" directing the question toward
Cleve.
