
Twelve hours later, Claude Marshall and his family stood on the ramp of
the spaceport watching the blue-tinted sun edge itself over the rim of
the planet.

The decision to pack a few immediate necessities and walk to the
homestead instead of waiting for transportation had been arrived at the
night before. It was ridiculous, Claude had argued, to waste time at
the reception center, when the culmination of a ten year dream lay just
twenty-eight miles away. Especially so, since the Director had informed
them that the materials for their prefab home was already waiting for
them on the land.

Nor were they alone in their eagerness to begin a new way of life.
Other settlers--some of them burdened-down with supplies that almost
equalled their own weight--had already started a trek over the virgin
landscape. In twos and threes, they plodded into the gently-sloping
valley. Some of them moved slowly, some eagerly. All of them looked
like tiny ants on a giant pool table.

Marshall adjusted the knapsack across his shoulders with an air of
finality. "Let's go, Joan," he said. "Stay close, Billy. We have a
long walk ahead of us."

They started into the valley.

Two hours later they stopped to rest. They stopped on a patch of rich,
green turf in the shadow of a broad-leaf tree. The spaceport, flanked
by its low-slung buildings was still visible, but from seven miles
away the buildings looked incredibly tiny. Like miniatures out of a
Christmas kit. But the thing that impressed them most was the quiet--a
strange sort of quiet, free of the whir of copter blades, land-car
horns, and other nerve-shattering noises. Instead, there was only the
rustle of a mild breeze through the tree branches, and the sound of
their own breathing.

Marshall lay on his back, his fingers laced behind his neck.

"I feel rested, Joan," he said. "We've just walked seven miles, but I
feel rested."

"I know, Claude. I feel the same way. It must be the air. The air feels
different."

"Wouldn't it be nice if it'd always stay this way. Fresh and unspoiled,
I mean. I know it won't, but wouldn't it be nice if it did."

"It will, Claude. It will for as long as we live anyhow, and for as
long as Billy lives. That's what's important. We're very lucky, Claude."

"I can't help thinking of the people back on Earth. I feel sorry for
them."

"They could do what we did. They could take the tests."

"I know. But even if they did, what would they have? Who'd want to
homestead the _other_ side of this planet? Who'd want to live out
there anyway?"

"I would, Pop," Billy said.

"No you wouldn't, Son. Don't you remember those black mountains we saw
from the ship when we came in?"

"Sure, Pop."

"Well that's what the other side of the planet is like. Only you
couldn't tell what it was really like because we were too high. You
wouldn't like it if you had to live there. It's cold, and rocky, and
there's only six hours of daylight out of every twenty-six."

"I wouldn't like it then," the boy said. "I don't like the dark."

Claude got up and looked at his wife. "Shall we move along," he said.

They pushed ahead. Eagerly, yet slowly enough to absorb the world's
endless beauty; stopping at the crest of each new hill; kneeling at
the shores of crystal lakes to quench their thirst; and scooping
up handfuls of rich, black soil in spots where the turf had become
dislodged.

The sun of Centauri was almost at zenith when they approached the crest
of the ridge that bounded the Marshall homestead.

Claude's pace, which had been quickening steadily for the final mile,
burst into a jagged trot for the final hundred uphill yards. At the top
of the hill he stopped, staring into the lush, green valley, ignoring
his family who'd been unable to keep pace with his eagerness.

The homestead was all that the color photos had advertised--and more.
It was all there. The flat, rich turf, the stream running through the
center of the valley, and the grove of trees under which he'd build the
prefab house.

He'd anticipated the moment so many times, it was hard to believe it
had really arrived. But it was real--it was. Everything was exactly as
he'd expected to find it ... except for one thing.

Always in his imagination, the land had been waiting for him to claim
it. Him alone--and his wife and son.

But they weren't alone.... There were other people on the land. On his
land!

And they were acting as if they lived there!
