
There were three of them--a man, a woman, and a boy of about nineteen.
The woman appeared to be cooking a meal over a wood fire, while the man
and boy were arranging a foundation pattern with part of the stack of
building materials which had been ear-marked for the house.

For his house!

Joan and Billy drew up alongside him, and together they stared at the
intruders.

"Who are they, Claude?" his wife said. "What does it mean?"

"I don't know, honey. Maybe they just stopped here to eat. That's what
it must be."

"But the men. The way they're measuring.... As if they're going to
build."

"We'll straighten it out, Joan.... Probably some mistake. I have our
land title. That'll prove they've made a mistake. Come on. We'll talk
to them."

The intruders stopped what they were doing as they approached, and the
man--a huge, block-shouldered fellow in a leather jacket--pushed out a
hand.

The man said: "Hello. My name's Whiting--Bruce Whiting."

Claude took the hand. "Claude Marshall," he said. "And this is my wife
and my son."

The man who called himself Whiting nodded, and looked over at his wife.
"We're fixing dinner," he said. "Why don't you and your family join us
before you push on?"

Claude watched the man's face while he spoke. It was an open face.
Guileless. With ruddy skin and mild, grey eyes that twinkled a bit at
the corners.

"We're not _pushing_ on," he said evenly. "We're staying. This is
_our_ land."

Bruce Whiting smiled. "There must be some mistake. This land is ours.
The boy and I are just fixing to start building."

Claude shook his head. "Not here you're not. Not on this land." He
spoke quietly; trying to keep his voice pitched below the emotion that
churned up inside him.

"What's wrong, Dad?" The man's son joined them.... He was a big
strapping lad, with sandy hair and very bright skin.

"These people are looking for their homestead," the man with the jacket
said. "They think _this_ is their site."

"You think wrong, Mister," the youth said. "We double checked this
location three times before we made camp.... Right?" He turned to the
older man for confirmation.

Whiting nodded. "The boy's right. This land is ours. We've got a deed
to prove it."

"So have I," Claude said frowning. "It's right here in the luggage....
Wait. I'll show you...." He bent over, unzipping the knapsack and
rummaged around till he produced the manila envelope that held the
title papers.

Bruce Whiting examined them carefully; first the neat rows of fine
print, then the dozen glossy color-photos which had been taken on the
property from strategic angles. He shook his head and turned to his son.

"Get _our_ titles, Frank," he said.

The boy left, returning within seconds with a similar manila envelope.
Bruce Whiting opened it and pushed a handful of papers at Claude.

While his wife and son watched, Claude Marshall went through the papers
methodically.... They were all there. All the measurements; looking
like duplicates, backed up by photos that had apparently been developed
from the same negatives.... He glanced at his wife.

"Something's wrong, Joan," he said. "Mr. Whiting has a claim on this
land too. It's just like ours.... Exactly!"

"But I don't understand, Claude."

"It's not too hard to understand, Mrs. Marshall," Whiting said. "It
just means that someone in Washington loused up the detail. They're
always making mistakes like that.... I figure some clerk--"

"But what are we supposed to _do_?"

Bruce Whiting moved his shoulders. "I don't know, Mrs. Marshall. I just
don't know.... After all we were here _first_. Why don't you take it up
with the Colonization Director?... Maybe there's another tract he could
give you."

"I don't want another tract," Claude said flatly. "I want this one."

"So do I, Mr. Marshall."

"But the land's mine!"

"Is it? How about _my_ title? It's just as valid as yours."

"That'll be for the law to decide," Claude said grimly. "And we'll
fight you on it. By God, we'll fight you on it all the way from here to
Washington and back!"

"That's up to you, of course. In the meantime, may I remind you that I
hold possession?"

Claude Marshall bit his lip.

"Let's go Joan," he said.

"Where, Claude?"

"Back to the spaceport. We'll get a ruling on this."

"But it's getting dark. Can't we make camp someplace and go back
tomorrow?"

"I'm hungry," Billy said.

"We can eat later, Son."

Bruce Whiting continued to regard them sullenly. Then abruptly, his
face softened. "Wait," he said. "Don't go. Your wife's right, Mr.
Marshall. You can't make the trip after dark. Why don't you and your
family camp here for the night.... Alice has supper nearly ready and
there's more than enough to go around...."

"We have our own rations," Claude said.

Bruce Whiting spread out his hands. "Look, Mr. Marshall. I know how you
feel. I know, because it's the same way _I_ feel. I guess a man can't
help the way he feels when something threatens the thing he's been
dreaming about all his life. But it isn't my fault that this happened
any more than it's your fault. Since the problem concerns both of us, I
suggest we sit down and discuss it like intelligent human beings."

"Mr. Whiting's right," Joan said. "After all it isn't his fault--"

"Another thing," Bruce Whiting went on. "I'm expecting a half-trac out
here tomorrow with some supplies. If you and your family wanted to,
there's no reason why we couldn't all ride back with him.... Maybe we
could get this thing straightened out then and still be friends."

Claude flicked a look toward the far-off hills that were haloed by the
last rays of a strange sun. Within moments it would be dark. And a few
yards away a woman threw another log on the fire and the pungent aroma
of boiling coffee drifted across his nostrils.

"I'm hungry," Billy repeated.

Claude held out his hand.

"I'm sorry," he said. "As you say: this isn't our fault. We're just
caught in the middle."
