
The blue sun of Centauri was almost at zenith the next day, when the
half-trac arrived with the supplies.

The driver--an amiable man--listened patiently while Bruce and Claude
related the mixup, and as had been expected, agreed to transport them
back to the base.

The two families rode together in the open back of the vehicle as it
jounced over the mildly sloping terrain. And yet the ride was not
unpleasant. The immensity of the planet was breathtaking. It was
exactly as the colorcasts had pictured it--only better, incredibly
better. No TV travelogue could adequately describe the tang of the air,
or the scent of the sweet-smelling grass.

God had indeed been generous with this portion of the planet.

It was hard to believe that the opposite side was a rocky wasteland
that would probably fight colonization for another thousand years.

Almost before they knew it, they were at the spaceport. Sometime during
the night, another ship had arrived. It stood majestically at the far
end of the apron, towering over a knot of tiny figures grouped around
the rudder stanchions.

The driver swooped past them and brought the half-trac to a halt in
front of the reception center where they observed the Colonization
Director watching them through the window of his office.

Inside, Leon Stubbs greeted them cordially and ushered them into an
inner office containing a metal desk and a dozen file cabinets.

The Director listened patiently, shaking his head from time to time
and muttering remarks about government inefficiency.... When they'd
finished, he ran his hand through his greying hair.

"This, of course, is an outrage, Gentlemen," he said. "But before I
can do anything, I'll have to check both your claims." He indicated
the file cabinets. "It may take a little time but I'll get at it right
away. As a matter of fact I believe they're serving lunch at the mess
hall now. Why don't you all have lunch and come back in about an hour.
I'll know more about the situation then."

Leon Stubbs shuffled through some papers on the desk, indicating
dismissal. The two men joined their families in the anteroom.

After an awkward silence, Bruce Whiting and his family excused
themselves, leaving the Marshall's alone.

"What did he say, Claude? Tell me! What did he say?"

"He doesn't know yet, honey. He's checking the claims. We're supposed
to come back in an hour."

"But it will be all right, won't it. It's got to be all right!"

"I don't know, Joan. So help me, I don't know.... We can't both have
the land. That's for sure. One of us will have to settle for someplace
else."

"Suppose we _did_ have to take another tract, Claude. Would you be
disappointed--I mean, really disappointed.... After all, isn't the
important thing the fact that we're here?"

Claude managed a smile. "I suppose so," he admitted. "It's just that
it comes as sort of a letdown. For almost seven years now we've been
looking at the pictures of _this_ land. We knew where we'd build the
house, what portion we'd farm.... I know every tree, every square inch
of it.... And now--"

"But there's other land. We've only seen a small portion of the planet."

He shook his head.

"Not like this. This claim has everything. What's more, Whiting knows
it. That's why he'll fight us on it all the way."

"They seem like nice people. Claude. Couldn't we talk to them ... make
some sort of deal?"

"A deal? What sort of deal?"

"A hundred acres is a lot of land--an awful lot of land.... Maybe the
Whitings would--"

"Uh uh. No good. I've already felt him out on that. I had the same idea
last night, so I came right out and asked him if he'd settle for fifty
acres apiece.... He refused. Oh, he was nice enough about it. But he
gave me to understand it was all or nothing with him."

"I'm hungry," Billy said.

Claude looked at his wife. "So am I. Let's go over to the mess hall.
That's where the Whitings went, I think."

"Claude?"

"Yes, Joan."

"Let's not sit with them, if we meet them there."

"All right, honey. Let's not."

They were halfway to the door when Leon Stubbs came out of the inner
office. He smiled.

"Mind stepping inside a moment?" he said.

When Claude hesitated, he added: "Perhaps Mrs. Marshall had better come
in too."

They followed him inside where the Director indicated two chairs
alongside the desk.

"I've been checking your claims," he said. "And since you were still
here, I didn't think it advisable to prolong the suspense."

Claude glanced at his wife.

"You mean it's all right ... the land is ours?"

The Director sat down and spread open a pair of folders on the desk.
For a long while he stared at them--comparing them. He shook his head.

"I'm afraid not, Mr. Marshall. I'm afraid it isn't all right."

"But our claim. It's valid, isn't it?"

Leon Stubbs ran a hand through his greying hair. "I don't know," he
said. "Naturally the fault for processing duplicate claims lies with
the colonization bureau in Washington. Eventually, I suppose it will
be up to them to decide on the disposition of this case.... However,
because of the time-lag in communications, I have full authority to
pass down temporary decisions in matters of this type.... And because
Mr. Whiting's claim is dated several days ahead of yours, I must in all
fairness award the land to him.... You and your wife can appeal that
decision of course."

"We'll appeal, Mr. Stubbs," Claude said angrily. "After all, this mess
is the government's fault. Not ours! It's up to them to straighten it
out."

"That's up to you," Leon Stubbs said. "Although I'm sure you realize
that in the meantime you'll have to make some temporary arrangements."

"Temporary arrangements?"

"Yes, Mr. Marshall. Even assuming the government decides in your
favor--which I doubt--you'll have to live _somewhere_ while the case is
being processed.... And that will take some time."

"How long?"

Leon Stubbs shuffled through the papers again.

"You know about the time-lag, don't you?"

"No. What about the time-lag?"

The Director met his stare. "I thought you knew. Actually the only
communication we have with Terra short of space travel, is by short
wave radio, and radio waves as you may know travel at approximately the
speed of light. Since we are approximately 4.4 light-years away from
Earth, a round trip message to Washington would take about nine years.
This of course does not take into consideration the time needed to
process your case."

Claude kept watching the Director's face while he spoke. He _looked_
like an honest man. To all intents and purposes he was simply a public
servant performing a distasteful duty. Yet there was something about
his voice that had an all-too-familiar ring.... Something that hinted
he was leading up to an offer.

Claude cleared his throat. "All right, Mr. Stubbs. So you've convinced
me of the futility of appealing the claim. What now?"

Leon Stubbs bit off the end of a cigar and lit it before answering.

"I've arranged to give you and your family an alternate claim, Mr.
Marshall. Of course it isn't quite as desirable as the original one.
But under the circumstances--" He let the sentence trail off.

"I see," Claude said. "And where is this alternate claim?"

Stubbs examined the end of his cigar.

"It's on the other side of the planet, Mr. Marshall. I'm sorry, but
that's the best I can do."

At his elbow, Claude caught the sharp intake of his wife's breath.

"It really isn't _too_ bad," the Director went on. "Many of the reports
about the cold-side have been exaggerated."

"I'm sure they have," Claude said bitterly. "I'm sure it's just the
place to bring up a nine-year-old boy."

"Please Mr. Marshall. Don't be bitter. It isn't my fault."

Claude got up placing his palms on the edge of the metal desk. He
leaned forward till his face was only inches away from the Director's
cigar, and said: "Isn't it?"

The Director didn't answer. Instead he got up and walked over to the
open window. For ten full seconds he stared out at the lush valley that
flanked the spaceport. Then he turned.

"You want my advice, Mr. Marshall?"

Claude shrugged his shoulders.

"Go home," Leon Stubbs said. "You can't bring up a boy on the
cold-side. It just wouldn't work."

"But we just got here," Joan said. "We sold everything we had to come
here!"

Stubbs nodded. "I know," he said. He indicated the folders. "It's all
there in your records. Six years ago you left Terra with six-thousand
credits. But surely with that kind of money you could get a fresh start
almost anywhere."

"But we want to stay here, Mr. Stubbs."

Stubbs took a drag out of the cigar.

"I know," he said woodenly.

Claude remained silent, regarding the conversation carefully. A pattern
was beginning to form now--a familiar pattern. He walked over to where
the Director was standing.

"Perhaps you could make a suggestion, Mr. Stubbs. Surely there must be
opportunities on _this_ side of the planet for a man with six-thousand
credits?"

"I'm not quite sure what you're getting at," Leon Stubbs said.

"I think you do, Mr. Stubbs," Claude retorted. "I think we're both
getting at the same thing. Suppose we dispense with the subtleties and
get down to cases."

The Director sat down at the desk pyramiding his fingertips.

"Very well, Mr. Marshall," he said. "I'll be blunt. It's occurred to me
that if the date on your claim were changed, the land would naturally
be yours. The difficulty of course lies in the fact that there are
duplicate records on Terra and we'd have to take care of the man who
handles them. Otherwise the discrepancy would show up eventually.
Actually, I want nothing for myself but these people in Washington--"

"Yeah, I know," Claude interrupted. "It's someone else who's getting
the money. It's _always_ someone else who's getting the money."

"It would take quite a bit, I'm afraid," the Director said ignoring the
sarcasm.

"How much?"

The Director stubbed out the end of his cigar. "About five thousand,"
he said. "Yes. Five thousand ought to do it."

Claude looked at his wife.

And she looked back at him.

Outside, Billy had tired of the seven-year-old magazine and was
hammering on the door for admittance.

"Can we have a few minutes to think it over?" Claude said.

"Certainly," Stubbs said amiably. "And I want to make it quite clear,
Mr. Marshall, that this money is not for me. There's this fellow--"

"Yeah, I know. There's this fellow in Washington. Come on Joan. Let's
step outside a moment."
