
Ten minutes later, Leon Stubbs answered their knock and ushered them
to the desk chairs. After they were seated, he said: "I take it you've
talked it over."

Claude nodded. "Yes, Mr. Stubbs. My wife and I talked it over and we
came to a decision."

"I'm glad," the Director said. "And may I say I think you're doing a
wise thing. Centifor's a beautiful place. Simply beautiful...."

"Yes it is," Claude agreed. "It is beautiful. That's why we'd like to
see it stay that way."

The Director raised an eyebrow.

"My wife and I talked it over," Claude went on, "and we decided that
taking someone else's land whether it's done by theft, force, or
bribery is wrong. We thought of this place as something fresh and
clean. We thought all those tests we took were designed to keep people
like you out of here. Now it appears we were mistaken. We've talked it
over, Mr. Stubbs, and we've decided to go back to Earth and expose you."

"But you can't," the Director said. "You've--"

"Yes we can," Claude said. "The ships go back practically empty. A
return berth will be no trouble at all. We're returning on the first
ship out."

"Perhaps we could make a better deal," Stubbs said. "Perhaps five
thousand is too much. Perhaps--"

"No. No deals! Let's go Joan."

They went outside, into the fresh warm sunshine, staring at the torpedo
shaped spaceship standing in the clearance area half-a-mile away.

They'd just started toward it, when a jeep squealed up alongside them.
Bruce Whiting was at the wheel.

"Hi," he said. "Hop in. I'll give you a lift."

"Thanks," Claude said without bitterness. He helped his wife and son
into the rear seat and climbed in beside the driver.

"I suppose congratulations are in order," he said as the other man
threw the vehicle into gear. "Stubbs tells me the land is yours now."

The driver nodded, inching down on the accelerator. The vehicle leaped
forward. At seventy miles an hour, they swooped past the spaceship and
the knot of people standing in the shadow of the rudder stanchions.

"Hey. Slow up!" Claude yelled. "We're getting off here. We're booking
return passage on that ship!"

Whiting didn't answer.

The low slung buildings of the clearance area leaped up at them and
passed into the background. They were heading into open country now.

"Whiting! Turn around. We're staying here in the clearance area!"

Whiting's foot slacked off the accelerator. The speedometer dropped to
fifty. But the vehicle kept moving into open country. The man at the
wheel flicked a look at Claude and smiled.

"Congratulations, Mr. Marshall," he said. "You've passed the final
test."

"Test? I don't understand."

"Let me explain then," Bruce Whiting said. "In the first place my name
isn't Whiting.... It's Reed--Paul Reed. I work for the government. This
final test--the one you just went through--was designed to weed out any
undesirables who might have slipped through our screening processes
back on Earth."

"You mean this whole build up was just a test?"

The other man nodded. "We give it to every new arrival here. Now that
you've passed, I'm driving you out to your homestead site."

Claude looked back at the newly-arrived spaceship and the tiny figures
who were huddled at its base.

"All those people," he said. "You mean they still have to go through
what we did?"

The driver shook his head.

"No. Those people are going back to Earth. You see, Mr. Marshall, those
are the people who offered Leon Stubbs the bribe."



