
He had arranged to be assigned the recording machines drifting in space
at the greatest distance from the command ship. The others would assume
that he needed more time to locate and retrieve the apparatus--which
would give him a head start toward Alpha Centauri.

His ship was not large, but it was powerful and versatile to cope with
any emergency that may have been encountered during the dangerous tests.
Gibson watched his instruments carefully for signs of pursuit until he
had put a few million miles between himself and the command ship. Then
he eased his craft into subspace drive and relaxed his vigilance.

He returned to normal space many "days" later in the vicinity of Alpha
Centauri. They may have attempted to follow him for all he knew, but it
hardly mattered by then. He broadcast the recognition signal he had been
given to memorize long ago, when he had volunteered his services to the
new states. Then he headed for the capital planet, Nessus. Long before
reaching it, he acquired a lowering escort of warcraft, but he was
permitted to land.

"Well, well, it's young Gibson!" the Chairman of Nessus greeted him,
after the newcomer had passed through the exhaustive screening designed
to protect the elaborate underground headquarters. "I trust you have
news for us, my boy. Watch outside the door, Colonel!"

One of the ostentatiously armed guards stepped outside and closed the
door as Gibson greeted the obese man sitting across the button-studded
expanse of desk. The scientist was under no illusion as to the vagueness
of the title "Chairman." He was facing the absolute power of the
Centaurian planets--which, in a few months' time, would be the same as
saying the ruler of all the human race in both systems. Gibson's file
must have been available on the Chairman's desk telescreen within
minutes of the reception of his recognition signal. He felt a thrill of
admiration for the efficiency of the new states and their system of
government.

He made it his business to report briefly and accurately, trusting that
the plain facts of his feat would attract suitable recognition. They
did. Chairman Diamond's sharp blue eyes glinted out of the fat mask of
his features.

"Well done, my boy!" he grunted, with a joviality he did not bother
trying to make sound overly sincere. "So _they_ have it! You must see
our men immediately, and point out where they have gone wrong. You may
leave it to me to decide _who_ has gone wrong!"
