
Arnold Gibson shivered involuntarily before reminding himself that _he_
had seen the correct answer proved before his eyes. He had stood there
and watched--more, he had worked with them all his adult life--and he
was the last whom the muddled fools would have suspected.

The officer outside the door, Colonel Korman, was recalled and given
orders to escort Gibson to the secret state laboratories. He glanced
briefly at the scientist when they had been let out through the
complicated system of safeguards.

"We have to go to the second moon," he said expressionlessly. "Better
sleep all you can on the way. Once you're there, the Chairman will be
impatient for results!"

Gibson was glad, after they had landed on the satellite, that he had
taken the advice. He was led from one underground lab to another, to
compare Centaurian developments with Solarian. Finally, Colonel Korman
appeared to extricate him, giving curt answers to such researchers as
still had questions.

"Whew! Glad you got me out!" Gibson thanked him. "They've been picking
my brain for two days straight!"

"I hope you can stay awake," retorted Korman with no outward sign of
sympathy. "If you think you can't, say so now. I'll have them give you
another shot. The Chairman is calling on the telescreen."

Gibson straightened.

_Jealous snob!_ he thought. _Typical military fathead, and he knows I
amount to more than any little colonel now. I was smart enough to fool
all the so-called brains of the Solar System._

"I'll stay awake," he said shortly.

Chairman Diamond's shiny features appeared on the screen soon after
Korman reported his charge ready.

"Speak freely," he ordered Gibson. "This beam is so tight and scrambled
that no prying jackass could even tell that it is communication. Have
you set us straight?"

"Yes, Your Excellency," replied Gibson. "I merely pointed out which of
several methods the Solarians got to yield results. Your--our scientists
were working on all possibilities, so it would have been only a matter
of time."

"Which you have saved us," said Chairman Diamond. His ice-blue eyes
glinted again. "I wish I could have seen the faces of Haas and
Co-ordinator Evora, and the rest. You fooled them completely!"

Gibson glowed at the rare praise.

"I dislike bragging, Your Excellency," he said, "but they _are_ fools. I
might very well have found the answer without them, once they had
collected the data. My success shows what intelligence, well-directed
after the manner of the new states of Centauri, can accomplish against
inefficiency."

The Chairman's expression, masked by the fat of his face, nevertheless
approached a smile.

"So you would say that you--one of _our_ sympathizers--were actually the
most intelligent worker _they_ had?"

_He'll have his little joke_, thought Gibson, _and I'll let him put it
over. Then, even that sour colonel will laugh with us, and the Chairman
will hint about what post I'll get as a reward. I wouldn't mind being in
charge--old Haas' opposite number at this end._

"I think I might indeed be permitted to boast of that much ability, Your
Excellency," he answered, putting on what he hoped was an expectant
smile. "Although, considering the Solarians, that is not saying much."

The little joke did not develop precisely as anticipated.

"Unfortunately," Chairman Diamond said, maintaining his smile
throughout, "wisdom should never be confused with intelligence."
