
"I'm a pretty morbid fellow," Rajcik said carelessly. "But at least I'm
not blaming inanimate objects, the way Watkins is. Or permitting myself
the luxury of shock, like you." He studied Somers' face. "This is your
first real emergency, isn't it, Captain?"

"I suppose so," Somers answered vaguely.

"And you're responding to it like a stunned ox," Rajcik said. "Wake up,
Captain! If you can't live with joy, at least try to extract some
pleasure from your dying."

"Shut up," Somers said, with no heat. "Why don't you read a book or
something?"

"I've read all the books on board. I have nothing to distract me except
an analysis of your character."

Watkins returned to the cabin. "Well, I've activated your big electronic
god. Would anyone care to make a burned offering in front of it?"

"Have you given it the problem?"

"Not yet. I decided to confer with the high priest. What shall I request
of the demon, sir?"

"Give it all the data you can," Somers said. "Fuel, oxygen, water,
food--that sort of thing. Then tell it we want to return to Earth.
Alive," he added.

"It'll love that," Watkins said. "It'll get such pleasure out of
rejecting our problem as unsolvable. Or better yet--insufficient data.
In that way, it can hint that a solution is possible, but just outside
our reach. It can keep us hoping."

Somers and Rajcik followed him to the cargo hold. The computer,
activated now, hummed softly. Lights flashed swiftly over its panels,
blue and white and red.

Watkins punched buttons and turned dials for fifteen minutes, then moved
back.

"Watch for the red light on top," he said. "That means the problem is
rejected."

"Don't say it," Rajcik warned quickly.

Watkins laughed. "Superstitious little fellow, aren't you?"

"But not incompetent," Rajcik said, smiling.

"Can't you two quit it?" Somers demanded, and both men turned startedly
to face him.

"Behold!" Rajcik said. "The sleeper has awakened."

"After a fashion," said Watkins, snickering.

Somers suddenly felt that if death or rescue did not come quickly, they
would kill each other, or drive each other crazy.

"Look!" Rajcik said.
