
A jolt sent him sliding backward. He clutched the rope with slippery
fingers. The wings missed a beat and the hippogriff shook its head as
the rope momentarily checked its breath. It tried to fly straight up,
lost way, and fell stiff-winged. The long muscles stretched under him as
it arched its back, then bunched when it kicked straight out behind. The
violence loosened his knees and he trembled with fatigue, but he wound
the rope around his wrists and pressed his forehead against whitened
knuckles. Another kick, and another. Johnny dragged at the rope.

The tense wings flailed, caught air, and brought the hippogriff upright
again. The rope slackened and he heard huge gasps. Sunlight was hot on
him again and a drop of sweat crawled down his temple. It tickled. He
loosened one hand to dab at the annoyance. A new twist sent him sliding
and he grabbed the rope. The tickle continued until he nearly screamed.
He no longer dared let go. Another tickle developed beside the first. He
scrubbed his face against the coarse fibre of the rope; the relief was
like a world conquered.

Then they glided in a steady spiral that carried them upward with
scarcely a feather's motion. When the next plunge came Johnny was ready
for it and leaned back until the hippogriff arched its neck, trying to
free itself from the pressure on its windpipe. Half choked, it glided
again, and Johnny gave it breath.

They landed on one of the little islands. The hippogriff drooped its
head and wings, trembling.

He took another piece of honeycomb from his pack and tossed it to the
ground where the hippogriff could reach it easily. While it ate he
stroked it and talked to it. When he dismounted the hippogriff took
honeycomb from his hand. He stroked its neck, breathing the sweet warm
feathery smell, and laughed aloud when it snuffled the back of his neck.

Tying the rope into a sort of hackamore, he mounted again and rode the
hippogriff to the pool below the thunder and cold spray of the
waterfall. He took care that it did not drink too much. When he ate some
apples for his lunch, the hippogriff ate the cores.

Afterward he rode to one of the drifting islands and let his mount
graze. For a while he kept by its side, making much of it. With his
fingers, he combed out the soft flowing plumes of its mane, and examined
its hoofs and the sickle-like talons of the forelegs. He saw how the
smooth feathers on its forequarters became finer and finer until he
could scarcely see where the hair on the hindquarters began. Delicate
feathers covered its head.

The island glided further and further away from the cliffs, and he
watched the waterfall dwindle away to a streak and disappear. After a
while he fell asleep.
