
Manny nodded as though this offer had tipped the balance but in truth
it made very little difference to him. Even the following week, when he
demonstrated to a full saloon how beautifully the four violins played
the Mephisto Waltz, he accepted the check which Amos Handworthy placed
in his hand with some puzzlement, not quite connecting it with the
maintenance miracle he had just wrought. Handworthy insisted on having
the machine play again and again, but after the fourth successful
round, Manny had lost interest in the device and was more concerned in
downing tequilas than in listening to the music.

Later that night, as he lay abed on a rumpled sweat-wet sheet,
wondering how in hell he had taken a job in this God-forsaken town in
Texas, he remembered dimly that his boss, Mr. Handworthy, had invited
him over to the stately Handworthy Mansion. He was not sure when the
invitation was for, or whether the occasion was of a business or social
character, but he knew that it was mandatory that he come.

Fortunately, a handwritten note on gray, unembossed letter paper
arrived the following day, confirming the invitation and specifying a
dinner date the following Friday evening at eight P.M. Manny's income
was a good one and he had eaten in some of the finest restaurants in
the country but he had never been to the home of a truly wealthy man
before. It was with no little trepidation that he appeared at the
door of the Handworthy Mansion and was ushered into the house by the
liveried butler who was, to Manny's intense surprise, white.

He was somewhat taken aback to find that he was the only dinner guest
and that the burden of making conversation would be totally his job.
But he found that contrary to his expectation, Amos Handworthy did
almost all of the talking.

The food was plentiful but not lavish or exotic in character. Mr.
Handworthy himself carved out liberal slices off the huge side of
beef that was brought in on a great silver salver. And although Mr.
Handworthy did not drink it, the wine was carefully chilled and of good
(but not the best) quality.

Since Manny had been raised in a low income Jewish inhabited section of
New York City and had, despite his extensive rootless shifting about
the country, no real insight into how anybody else lived, he found
himself quite taken with the rambling tales that Amos Handworthy told
of his town's history.
