
"My father," said Amos Handworthy toward the close of the dinner, "was
one of the last frontier marshals and maybe _the greatest_. His draw
was reputed to be so fast that the eye could barely follow it and he
never missed his target."

"But he drank like a fish," he thought, "and spent most of his time at
the sporting house on East Maple."

"As a boy," he said aloud, "I could think of nothing more ideal than to
follow in his footsteps when I grew up. Course, when I _had_ grown up,
there was no more frontier, no more show downs in the center of town.
It was a terrible disappointment and one that I haven't gotten over,
even yet."

"My father," said Manny pensively, "claimed that I had clumsy wooden
hands. He was wrong and I think he knew it. But he'd never admit it to
me."

"Do you know what disturbs me?" said Amos Handworthy. "There have been
challenges for me, some financial, some physical, others social, and
I've met and beaten every one of them. But I've never been in the same
mother naked kind of situation my Father had to meet where it was one
man's raw courage and skill against another's."

"The thing that disturbs me," said Manny, "is that whenever I knock
off a particularly tough job, instead of being elated, I'm totally
depressed until the next challenging one comes along."

Amos Handworthy raised the wine bottle to the light and studied the
play of color through the thickened glass.

"Come inside," he said abruptly. "I've got something special I want to
show you."

Manny followed after his host and found himself in a huge, high
ceilinged room flanked on all four walls by reward posters, some as
much as one hundred years old. There were no furnishings in the room,
just a series of unusual pieces of furniture that proved on closer
scrutiny to be automata of diverse types. In the center of the room was
a great amorphous mass covered by an enormous sheet.

"I have no kin," said Handworthy, staring possessively about him. "I've
never married so I have no children. But I'm a happy man nevertheless.
These are my children," he said, gesticulating about him. "This one, is
a particular delight," he added, his voice swelling with pride as he
brought Manny over for a closer view.
