
It was a gray enamelled case surmounted by a glistening blue hemisphere
adorned with tiny stars of silver and gold. Within the hemisphere
was an exquisite miniature ball room, the walls lined with mirrors,
and when Handworthy wound up the movement and released the catch, two
groups of tiny dancers began to waltz toward each other. Their images
were caught up and multiplied an hundred-fold in the mirrors creating a
truly breathtaking sight as the unseen strings of a harp were plucked
below in the gray enamelled case.

Before Manny could comment, he was whisked over to a superbly crafted
wooden figure of a charming child, a painted smile wreathing the gently
carved mouth. The child was seated on a mahogany stool and when the
latching hook had been lowered, it leaned forward and after dipping a
feathered pen into an ink-well, began to write in smooth cursive flow.
When she leaned back, her motions apparently brought to a close, Manny
bent forward and found to his intense amazement a beautifully crafted
letter of some fifty words written to the mother of the child.

There were other amazing sights, an android that fingered and breathed
wind into a flute that played sweetly, a reclining Cleopatra that
rose, bowed gravely at the waist and then lay down once more upon her
feathered couch. Since each of the treasured machines was in perfect
functioning order, Manny rapidly lost interest and merely followed
Handworthy about, nodding politely, his mind distant upon a persistent
circuit problem that was still unsolved. But he was jarred back to
reality when, with the reverence that one would use to lay bare a
sleeping nymph, Handworthy removed the sheet from the huge centerpiece
of the room. It was a small segment of a Western street, complete with
hitching post, before which stood an uncannily lifelike figure of a
town marshal, complete with vest and badge, chaps and holstered gun.
The painted face was scowling and from closer scrutiny it was apparent
that the figure was capable of complex motion.

"The others," said Amos Handworthy, "are marvelous antiques that
I've collected, but this fellow was made to my own specifications in
Switzerland. His clothing is quite authentic and he really works. Watch
this!"

He stepped forward and took a loosely draped gun belt off the hitching
post to the right of the Marshal and buckled it about his waist.

"The device is electrically operated," he continued. "The instant I
draw, the Marshal draws too, and the trick is to hit him somewhere on
his target photocells with a beam of light that flashes out of my gun,
before he can get off his shot. I can adjust the speed of his draw
within fairly wide limits and I've been moving him up to faster and
faster speeds. But I've gotten pretty damn fast."
