
With a drawing motion that was almost a blur, he whipped out his gun
and pulled the trigger. The Marshal was fast, but apparently not _as_
fast for suddenly a recorded voice bellowed in pain and gasped, "you
got me, you dirty varmint."

"A little touch of my own," said Amos Handworthy. "That's what happens
when I hit him."

He looked down at his gun, almost proudly, and Manny had the eerie
feeling that it was only with restraint that he did not blow the
imaginary smoke away from the gun barrel.

"That's a highly imaginative device," said Manny.

"He is," said Amos Handworthy. "But he's still not quite what I want
him to be. I have an idea that you can make him the kind of opponent I
need."

"What do you want?" said Manny. All of his ennui was beginning to
evaporate and the familiar exultant response to challenge had begun to
grow in him.

"I want him to be able to hit me, too, figuratively speaking," said
Amos Handworthy. "As things stand now, this shoot out is entirely one
sided. I'd like to know, for instance, if he's been able to hit me."

"I can do it," said Manny. "You'll have to get me off my regular
project, but I can do it."

"I'll call your division chief in the morning," said Amos Handworthy.
"You'll stay here with me and you can have all the time you need."

Manny did not sleep well in his spacious overly comfortable bed. He
was up early the following morning pouring over the construction plans
for the Marshal and examining the instruction folder which the Swiss
company, with typical thoroughness, had included in the neatly packed
maintenance kit. He caught the guiding concept of the design at once,
and made his plans to modify the Marshal along lines that incorporated
control techniques that were basically electronic.

He phoned the plant and requisitioned transistors, metal film
resistors, capacitors, and various other components necessary for his
task. Handworthy did not approach him as he worked and his meals were
served to him either in his own room or the great room where all the
automata were located. He made all the changes himself, snipping leads,
soldering, forming tight mechanical joints with deft fingers that
almost seemed alive and apart from his body.
