
So, at last we were in space, after weeks of partying, dedications
and speech-making and farewell dinners, none of which aroused in
me a damned regret for my decision to forsake my generation of
fellow-scrabblers.

Yes, we were all warned that, fast as the _Larson Drive_ was, it would
take us over 42 years, earth-measured time, to reach our destination.
Even if we found no planets to explore, turned around and came right
back, the roundtrip would consume the lifetimes of even the new babies
we left behind. To me this was a perversely comforting thought.

All I wanted to know was how they expected me to live long enough to
complete the journey? I could think of pleasanter ways to spend my last
days than cooped up in this sardine can with a passel of fish-faced,
star-happy scientists.

I was 48 when we departed, which would make me a lucky 90 if I
was still wiggling when we hove into our celestial port. But the
mathematicians said to relax. Their space-time theory provided, they
claimed, a neat device for survival on our high-velocity journey.

The faster a body moves in reference to another, the slower time
appears to act on the moving body. If, they said, man could travel at
the speed of light, supposedly time would stand still for him. This, I
reflected, would mean human immortality--much too good for people.

Anyway, since our average velocity for the trip was planned to come out
around a tenth of the speed of light, to us on the _Albert E._, only
about five months would seem to have elapsed for the journey that would
consume 42-1/2 years, earth-time.

It seemed to me they were laying a hell of a lot of faith in a theory
that we were the first to test out. Our food, water and air-supplies
gave us a very small safety margin. With strict rationing we would be
self-sufficient for just 12 months.

That left us just two months to fool around looking for a place to sit
down. I mentioned this item to Larson on the second day out. I found
him at coffee mess sitting alone, staring at his ugly big hairy hands.
He was a tall Swede with a slight stoop and the withdrawn manner of a
myopic scholar.

As commander of the ship he had the right to keep aloof, but as scribe,
I had the privilege of chewing him for information. I said, "Skipper,
if it took us generations to discover all the planets in our own little
solar system, what do you figure the chances are of our spotting a
planet near our goal, in the short time of two months?"
