
He was silent while I drew my ration of coffee and sugar, then he
opened his hands and seemed to find words written on his palms. His
eyes never did come up from beneath his shaggy eyebrows. "If they
exist," he said slowly, "we might find one. We have better telescopes
and our vantage point in space will be superior."

He was a sorry-looking specimen, and I remembered that the
fifty-year-old scientist had left behind a youngish wife who adored the
ground he walked on. The handsome, blonde woman had stood heroically
beside the ramp and watched, dry-eyed, as her husband ascended.

There had been no visible exchange of farewells at the end, as he stood
beside me in the air-lock. They just stared into each other's eyes
oblivious to all but the maudlin sorrow of their separation.

Then the portal had closed and widowed her, and I had the feeling that
Larson was going to tear at the great, threaded door with his bare
hands and renounce the whole project. But he just stood there breathing
a little heavy and clenching those tremendous hands until it was time
to take off. In a way I envied him an emotion that was long dead in me,
dead of the slow corrosive poison of contempt for the whole human race.
Dead and pickled in the formaldehyde of ten thousand columns for which
the syndicates had paid me nothing but cold money.

Here was a man whose heart could still love, and I hated him for it.
I said, "You look like you still have regrets. Maybe this isn't worth
your personal sacrifices, after all. If we don't find an inhabitable
planet we won't have accomplished much."

"You are wrong," he said quickly. "We have already served our purpose."

"Testing the Drive, you mean?"

He nodded. "This morning in our last radio contact with earth I
dispatched the word. The _Larson Drive_ is successful. We have
passed from our solar system on schedule, and our measurements of
ship-objective time check out with the theory--roughly, at least."

He spread his hands out on the table. "This was our primary goal.
The expedition ahead is subsidiary. Colonization may result from our
exploration, true; but now we have opened the universe."

It was nice to know that things were progressing as planned. I asked,
"What do you mean about things checking 'roughly'? Is there some error?"

He nodded and swallowed the dregs from the magnesium cup. "A
considerable error, but it's on the safe side. Our velocity checks
perfectly, but our estimate of the time-shrinkage factor is so far off
that Mr. Einstein's formulae will take some major revision to reconcile
what has happened."

"We'll arrive sooner than planned?"

Larson nodded again. "According to shipboard elapsed time we will
arrive in the vicinity of our destination in just ninety-two hours from
now--a total of 122 hours since take-off. You were worrying earlier
about our scanty supplies; this should put your mind at rest."

It didn't displease me. The lack of privacy on this tin bathtub was
even worse than I had anticipated. The news came as sort of a reprieve.

I looked at Larson, and suddenly I knew why the long face. His Tina!

For her, ten years would already have passed, and as we sat there
talking, weeks of her existence were fading into oblivion--and Hans
Larson was begrudging every second of it. Damned fool, should have
stayed at home.

I left him brooding into his empty cup and went forward to the little
control dome. One wonderful attribute of the _Larson Drive_ was that
there was no acceleration discomfort. Gravity was nullified at the
outset, and ship's gravity was kept at an comfortable one-half "g".
