
Mac Hulbert, chief navigator, was alone up there, one foot cocked up
on the edge of the broad instrument-board that looked like a cluttered
desk-top with handles. He was staring out into the void.

Yes, void! They had said it would be black in space, but not even a
glimmer of light showed through the transparent dome. As you looked
to the side and back, faint, violent specks seemed to catch at your
peripheral vision, but it was impossible to focus on a single heavenly
body.

Mac didn't turn or greet me. His face was no longer that of the
carefree adventurer with whom I had tied on a fair binge less than a
week ago.

"Getting you down, too, Mac?" I asked. He was about the only one aboard
I could even tolerate. He wasn't as sour on humanity as I, but he
granted me the right to my opinions, which was something.

"God, yes!" he said. "Skipper tell you about the time-error?"

I said, "Yes, but what's there to be sad about? You don't mind that
part, do you?" To my knowledge, Mac hadn't left anything behind but his
dirty laundry.

Hulbert was in his mid-thirties, slender, balding and normally as
cheerful and stupidly optimistic as they come. Now he looked worse off
than Larson.

"Yeah, I mind that," he said kind of resentfully. "I thought we'd have
more time to--sort of get used to the idea of--well, outgrowing our
generation. But think, by now many of my older buddies will be dead. A
dozen World Series will be over. Who knows, maybe there's a war going
on back there?"

Of all the morbid nonsense. Yearning for the obituary column, the
sports page and the headlines. But then people are rarely sensible
when something disturbs their tidy little universe that they take for
granted.

It was a little terrifying, though, staring out into that smothering
lamp-black. We were moving so fast and living so slowly that even the
light-waves from the galaxies toward which we moved had disappeared.
We were reversing the "redshift" effect of receding light sources. We
approached the stars before us at such a velocity that their light
impinged at a rate above the visible violet spectrum.

Mac blurted out, "It will never work out."

"What won't?"

"Colonization. Not at these unholy distances, even if we do find an
earth-type planet or two. People won't leave everything behind them
like this. I--I feel cut off. Something's gone, everything, everybody
we knew back there. It's terrible to consider!"
