
I was in the control-room with Larson and Mac when we got our first
inkling. Mac was fooling with the electronic search gear, sweeping for
planets, when he gave a yip and pointed a jabbing finger at the scope.

"Audio," he stammered. "Look at that!" He lengthened the sweep and the
jumble of vertical lines spread out like a picket fence made of rubber.

"A carrier wave with audio modulation," he said with disbelief all over
his face.

Larson remained calm. "I hear you, lad. Don't shout." He studied the
signal and frowned deeply. "It's faint, but you can get a fix."

As they played with the instruments I looked forward through the
green shield that protected us from Alpha C's heavy radiation. Our
destination star was now a brilliant blob dominating our piece of
heaven. It was a difficult thing to grasp that we had travelled almost
26 trillion miles--in five days, ship's time.

Mac said, "It's a planet, sure enough, but that audio--"

Larson snapped, "Forget the audio! Give me a bearing, and let's be
getting on course. That may be the only planet in the system, and I
don't want to lose it."

His arms pumped and his big hands pawed at the controls as he brought
the inertialess drive into manual manipulations.

For the next few, tense hours we stalked the planet at a discreetly low
velocity. When his navigation problem was complete and we were on a
slow approach orbit, Mac began playing with the communication rig again.

The ship's intercom was cut in, and we had to chase people out as
excitement mounted over our discovery. Finally, when his elbow had been
jostled once too often, Larson ordered the control room cleared of all
hands but Hulbert and me.

When we were alone Larson said, "This is fantastic."

Mac's face was tied into an amazed scowl, too, as he studied the
feeble little patterns on his wave analyzer. "You said it," he
breathed. "We've got ourselves a sweet little earth-type planet, if
we can believe the spectro, and unless I'm stark space-happy, there's
something or somebody down there beaming a broadcast smack in our
direction, following us around like the string on a yo-yo."

"How do you figure that?" Larson wanted to know.

Mac replied, "At this distance the field strength is too strong for
anything but a beamed transmission. Mister, _they have us bracketed_."

Mac swung to the panel on his left and cut in the communication
circuit. "It's strong enough to listen to, now. Let's see what kind of
gibberish we can wring out of that carrier wave."

He threw a couple of switches and hunted for the exact frequency. A
whisper and a rustle of the carrier brushed the speaker. Mac centered
in and turned up the volume.

Then even I sucked air. A voice issued from the sound-cone. A man's
voice: "--lcome to New Columbia. Welcome, _Albert E._ Come in, please.
Welcome to New Columbia. Welcome, _Albert E._ Come in please."
