
It repeated over and over. Larson let his breath go first with a
nervous snort. Mac and Larson both looked at me as if maybe I had
something to do with it. Hands trembling, Mac picked up the microphone
and reached for the transmitter switch. Larson grabbed the mike from
his hand. "Not so fast, dammit!"

"But they know we're up here," Mac protested. "They even know the name
of our ship!"

"And our language," I added. I wasn't bored any more.

Larson nodded slowly. "What kind of devilish intelligence have we run
into? I need time--to think."

The way he said it sent a cold draught down my spine, and then my
imagination started catching up to his. At our rate of approach to
the star system, how could any living being have had time to sense
our presence, pick our brains to learn our ship's name, our language,
master our method of communication, contrive a transmitter and get on
the air?

The magnitude of the accomplishment sent the importance of our little
triumph of space travel tumbling into a cocked limbo of insignificance.

For a moment I considered the old curvature of space concept. Could we
have somehow doubled back--completing a mystic circle? Was that old
Sol up there burning through our green shield? What a laugh that would
be! The mental giants of our times backtracking and circling like a
tenderfoot lost in the woods on Lake Minnetonka.

Mac cut off the transmitter reluctantly, but he said, "Yeah, I guess
I see what you mean, skipper." Larson got to his feet and paced the
crowded wedge of space, punching a fist into his other hand with meaty
slaps.

He stopped and listened to the soft muttering of the speaker and shook
his head. "It makes no sense. It's impossible. Utterly impossible!"

The man's voice from the planet implacably continued repeating the
message--no trace of an accent, nothing to suggest an alien origin in
its tone, pitch or enunciation.

Perhaps that's what threw Larson so hard. If there had been the
faintest taint of other worldliness about it, I think he'd have hauled
stakes and gotten us out of there. But the song of the siren was too
powerful--the irresistible mental image of a fellow human out here
in the bottom of space was salt in the bleeding wounds of Larson's
loneliness.

He stared out where the planet must be, some million miles before us.
Suddenly the tenseness relaxed from his face and he got the damndest
expression of mixed incredulity, hopefulness and sorrow. Tears began
welling from his eyes and streaming down the rugged contours of his
cheeks.

It didn't add. Nor could I reason a motive for his laconic command:
"Intersection orbit, Mr. Hulbert. We'll take her down," he said
quietly. That was all. He hunched over the control board and moved
things according to Mac's computations.
