
Soon I could make out the planet. We came in from an obtuse angle with
its sun, so it showed first as a crescent of pale, green silver. Then
it filled the viewing dome, and Mac began working the homing equipment.
"May I acknowledge their message now, skipper?"

Larson shook his head with compressed lips.

"But if we are going in anyway--" Mac argued.

"No!" Larson exploded. Then his voice softened. "I think I know the
mystery of the voice," he said. "It must be, it must be! But if it
isn't--if I'm wrong--God alone knows. We must chance it. I don't want
to know differently--until it's too late."

This was just real great. Larson had some fantastic notion, and he
wanted it to be true so damned badly that he was taking us into blind
jeopardy when we had the means to probe it first. Real scientific, that.

Humans! Men, and their so-called sense of reason! Larson was a crowning
example of the sloppy-hearted thing I was fleeing when I embarked on
this joy-ride, and now it would probably be my undoing.

We were homing in on the transmission from "New Columbia", easing down
into the atmosphere, and now clouds and land and water formations took
shape. The beam led us to the sunlit rim of dawn, and suddenly we
were hovering over a great forest, slit at intervals with streaks of
glittering blue that looked like deep, wide rivers.

Now Mac touched a switch, and the CW whistle gave us a tight audio beam
to follow to the source of the signal. Larson switched to the micro
landing controls to ride in like a jet liner on the Frisco-Shanghai
run. We slanted gently down until the forest became trees, and the
little blue-green splotches were lush, grassy meadows.

And there was the tower, and the low buildings--and the spaceship!

Something happened to me inside when I saw that. It was a kind of
tremolo feeling, like a note in a new symphony, a note that springs
free and alone, wavering uncertainly, and you don't know which way it
will turn.

In seconds that seemed like hours, we were on the ground, the ramp was
jammed out and Larson was blundering down it crying like a baby.
