
I stood in the port breathing the warm air redolent with exotic new
scents and yawped like an idiot, trying to make sense of the huge
banner strung a hundred yards across one whole side of the little
village. The banner read:

    WELCOME, HANS! WELCOME
          ALBERT E.
    WE KNEW YOU WERE COMING,
             SO--

And near the center of the banner was the largest chocolate cake, or
facsimile thereof, in all creation. It must have been ten feet high and
twenty feet in diameter.

But Hans Larson wasn't amused by the cosmic gag. He galloped off that
gang-plank like a love-sick gorilla. And I'm a comet's uncle if Tina
wasn't there, racing out to meet him, Larson had guessed the truth, and
no wonder he hadn't had the guts to test it beforehand!

By the time I got down, out and over to where they were all wrapped up
mingling tears, I had it pretty well doped out myself.

I don't know why we had figured that all progress and improvement in
interstellar flight would cease just because we had left earth. The
eternal, colossal conceit of men, I guess.

When our last signal back to earth had given the okay sign, sure, they
started building bigger ships and recruiting another crew. But by the
time that the _Albert E. II_, was ready to take off for a more extended
expedition, the _Larson Drive_ was now the _Larson-McKendrick Drive_,
with a velocity of a full half the speed of light, some five times our
velocity.

Somehow, Tina had managed to get herself in the party, as Hans had
sensed she would. And the time-differential, as it worked out, wasn't
serious at all. Tina had been only 32 when we left her on earth.
Including the year and a half she had already been with the colony on
New Columbia, she was still quite a bit younger than Hans, and just
twice as pretty as the day of their separation.

The tremolo note was rising now, the soft, mystic pitch of excitement
inherent in the new world.

I turned to Mac, who was grinning like to split his face. I said,
"Looks like you were wrong, old boy--about the impossibility of
colonizing."

He nodded his head readily, but he wouldn't tear his eyes away from
that monsterous, preposterous chocolate cake. The attraction, I
discovered, was a little bevy of on-lookers who stood at its base.
They were a dozen or more most attractive colonists in the younger
age-bracket and unmistakably of the opposite sex.

Mac said, "Yeah, I was wrong about colonizing prospects. Dead wrong.
Aren't you glad?"

And now the tremolo feeling split into a crescendo of sub-harmonics and
overtones, a magnificent chord of attunement with life and humanity
everywhere in the universe. And all at once I knew _I was glad_, happy
as hell to see these people from the old hometown of earth.



