
Long before I was a boy in Med School, itching to look at black sky
through a view-port, galley science had fulfilled the disgusting
exordium of _Isaiah_ 36:12, to feed the Slimeheads for breakfast today
what was day-before-yesterday's table-scraps and jakes-water.

The Ship's Cook, the man who accomplishes the daily miracle of turning
offal into eatables, is in many ways the most vital man aboard a
spacer. He can make morale or foment a mutiny. His power is paramount.
Slimeheads remember the H. M. S. _Ajax_ fiasco, for example, in which a
galleyman leveled his Chlorella tanks with heavy water from the ship's
shielding. Four officers and twenty-one Other Ranks were rescued from
the _Ajax_ in deep space, half dead from deuterium poisoning. We think
of the _Benjo Maru_ incident, too, caused by a Ship's Cook who allowed
his algaeal staff-of-life to become contaminated with a fast-growing
_Saccharomycodes_ yeast. The Japanese vessel staggered to her pad at
Piano West after a twenty-week drunk: the alien yeast had got into
the stomach of every man aboard, where it fermented each subsequent
bite he ate to a superior grade of _sake_. And for a third footnote to
the ancient observation, "God sends food, and the Devil sends cooks,"
Marsmen will recall what happened aboard my ship the _Charles Partlow
Sale_.

The _Sale_ blasted off from Brady Station in the middle of August, due
in at Piano West in early May. In no special hurry, we were taking
the low-energy route to Mars, a pathway about as long in time as the
human period of gestation. Our cargo consisted mostly of Tien-Shen fir
seedlings and some tons of an arctic grass-seed--these to be planted
in the _maria_ to squeeze out the native blue bugberry vines. We had
aboard the Registry minimum of six men and three officers. Ship's
Surgeon was myself, Paul Vilanova. Our Captain was Willy Winkelmann,
the hardest man in space and very likely the fattest. Ship's Cook was
Robert Bailey.

Cooking aboard a spacer is a job combining the more frustrating
tensions of biochemistry, applied mycology, high-speed farming,
dietetics and sewage engineering. It's the Cook's responsibility to
see that each man aboard gets each day no less than five pounds of
water, two pounds of oxygen, and one-and-a-half pounds of dry food.
This isn't just a paragraph from the Spacer Union Contract. It's a
statement of the least fuel a man can run on.

Twelve tons of water, oxygen, and food would have filled the cargo
compartments to bursting, and left a small ship like the _C. P. Sale_
no reason to reach for Mars. By allowing a colony of Chlorella algae to
work over our used air, water and other effluvia, though, three tons
of metabolites would see us through from Brady Station to Piano West
and back. Recycling was the answer. The molecule of carbohydrate, fat,
protein or mineral that didn't feed the crew fed the algae. And the
algae fed us.

All waste was used to fertilize our liquid fields. Even the stubble
from our 2,680 shaves and the clippings from our 666 haircuts en route
and back would be fed into the Chlorella tanks. Human hair is rich in
essential amino acids.

The algae--dried by the Cook, bleached with methyl alcohol to kill the
smell and make the residue more digestible, disguised and seasoned in a
hundred ways--served as a sort of meat-and-potatoes that never quite
wore out. Our air and water were equally immortal. Each molecule of
oxygen would be conversant with the alveoli of every man aboard by the
end of our trip. Every drop of water would have been intimate with the
glomeruli of each kidney on the ship before we grounded in. Groundling
politicians are right enough when they say that we spacers are a
breed apart. We're the one race of men who can't afford the luxury of
squeamishness.
