
"Doc, do you like Winkelmann?" the Cook asked me.

"Not much," I said. "I suspect that the finest gift our Captain can
give his mother is to be absent from her on Mother's Day. But we've got
to live with him. He's a good man at driving a ship."

"I wish he'd leave off driving this Cook," Bailey said. "The fat swine!"

"His plumpness is an unwitting tribute to your cooking, Bailey," I
said. "He eats well. We all do. I've dined aboard a lot of spacers in
my time, and I'll testify that you set a table second to none."

Bailey took a handful of dried Chlorella from a bin and fingered it. It
was green, smelled of swamp, and looked appetizing as a bedsore. "This
is what I have to work with," he said. He tossed the stuff back into
its bin. "In Ohio, which is my home country, in the presence of ladies,
we'd call such garbage Horse-Leavings."

"You'll never make Winkelmann happy," I said. "Even the simultaneous
death of all other human beings could hardly make him smile. Keep up
the good work, though, and you'll keep our Captain fat."

Bailey nodded from his one-man cloud of gloom. I got a bottle of rye
from Medical Stores and offered him a therapeutic draught. The Cook
waved my gift aside. "Not now, Doc," he said. "I'm thinking about
tomorrow's menu."

The product of Bailey's cerebrations was on the mess table at noon the
next day. We were each served an individual head of lettuce, dressed
with something very like vinegar and oil, spiced with tiny leaves of
burnet. How Bailey had constructed those synthetic lettuces I can only
guess: the hours spent preparing a green Chlorella paste, rolling and
drying and shaping each artificial leaf, the fitting together of nine
heads like crisp, three-dimensional jigsaw puzzles. The _pièce de
résistance_ was again a "hamburger steak;" but this time the algaeal
mass that made it up was buried in a rich, meaty gravy that was only
faintly green. The essence-of-steak used in these Chlorella cutlets had
been sprinkled with a lavish hand. Garlic was richly in evidence. "It's
so tender," the radioman joked, "that I can hardly believe it's really
steak."

Bailey stared across the dining-cubby toward Winkelmann, silently
imploring the Captain's ratification of his masterpiece. The big
man's pink cheeks bulged and jumped with his chewing. He swallowed.
"Belly-Robber," Winkelmann said, "I had almost rather you served me
this pond-scum raw than have it all mucked-up with synthetic onions and
cycler-salt."
