
"You seem able enough to choke down Bailey's chow, Captain," I said. I
gazed at Winkelmann's form, bulbous from a lifetime of surfeit feeding.

"Yes, I eat it," the Captain said, taking and talking through another
bite. "But I eat only as a man in the desert will eat worms and
grasshoppers, to stay alive."

"Sir, what in heaven's name do you expect from me?" Bailey pleaded.

"Only good food," Winkelmann mumbled through his mouthful of disguised
algae. He tapped his head with a finger. "This--the brain that guides
the ship--cannot be coaxed to work on hog-slop. You understand me,
Belly-Robber?"

Bailey, his hands fisted at his sides, nodded. "Yes, sir. But I really
don't know what I can do to please you."

"You are a spacer and a Ship's Cook, not a suburban _Hausfrau_ with the
vapors," Winkelmann said. "I do not expect from you hysterics, tantrums
or weeping. Only--can you understand this, so simple?--food that will
keep my belly content and my brain alive."

"Yes, sir," Bailey said, his face a picture of that offense the British
term Dumb Insolence.

Winkelmann got up and climbed the ladder to the pilot-cubicle. I
followed him. "Captain," I said, "you're driving Bailey too hard.
You're asking him to make bricks without straw."

Winkelmann regarded me with his pale-blue stare. "You think, Doctor,
that my cruelty to the Belly-Robber is the biliousness of a middle-aged
man?"

"Frankly, I can't understand your attitude at all," I said.

"You accuse me of driving a man to make bricks without straw,"
Winkelmann said. "Very well, Doctor. It is my belief that if the
Pharaoh's taskmaster had had my firmness of purpose, the Children of
Israel would have made bricks with stubble. Necessity, Doctor, is the
mother of invention. I am Bailey's necessity. My unkindnesses make him
uncomfortable, I doubt that not. But I am forcing him to experiment,
to improvise, to widen the horizons of his ingenuity. He will learn
somehow to bring good food from Chlorella tanks."

"You're driving him too hard, Sir," I said. "He'll crack."

"Bailey will have some fifty thousand dollars' salary waiting when we
ground at Brady Station," Captain Winkelmann said. "So much money buys
many discomforts. That will be all, Doctor Vilanova."

"Crew morale on the ship...." I began.

"That will be all, Doctor Vilanova," Captain Winkelmann repeated.
