
Bailey grew more silent as we threaded our way along the elliptical
path to Mars. Each meal he prepared was a fresh attempt to propitiate
the appetite of our splenetic Captain. Each such offering was condemned
by that heartless man. Bailey began to try avoiding the Captain at
mealtimes, but was frustrated by Winkelmann's orders. "Convey my
compliments to the Chef, please," the Captain would instruct one of
the crew, "and ask him to step down here a moment." And the Cook would
cheerlessly appear in the dining-cubby, to have his culinary genius
acidly called in question again.

I myself do not doubt that Bailey was the finest Cook ever to go
into Hohmann orbit. His every meal established a higher benchmark in
brilliant galleymanship. We were served, for instance, an _ersatz_ hot
turkey supreme. The cheese-sauce was almost believable, the Chlorella
turkey-flesh was white and tender. Bailey served with this delicacy
a grainy and delicious "cornbread," and had extracted from his algae
a lipid butter-substitute that soaked into the hot "bread" with a
genuinely dairy smell. "Splendid, Bailey," I said.

"We are not amused," said Captain Winkelmann, accepting a second
helping of the pseudo-turkey. "You are improving, Belly-Robber, but
only arithmetically. Your first efforts were so hideous as to require
a geometric progression of improving excellence to raise them to mere
edibility. By the time we are halfway 'round the Sun, I trust you will
have learned to cook with the competence of a freshman Home Economics
student. That will be all, Bailey."

The crew and my fellow-officers were amused by Winkelmann's riding of
Bailey; they were in addition gratified that the battle between their
Captain and their Cook served to feed them so well. Most spacers embark
on an outward voyage somewhat plump, having eaten enough on their last
few days aground to smuggle several hundred calories of fat and many
memories of good food aboard with them. This trip, none of the men had
lost weight during the first four months in space. Winkelmann, indeed,
seemed to have gained. His uniform was taut over his plump backside,
and he puffed a bit up the ladders. I was considering suggesting to our
Captain that he curtail his diet for reasons of health, a bit of advice
that would have stood unique in the annals of space medicine, when
Winkelmann produced his supreme insult to our Cook.
