
Each man aboard a spacer is allowed ten kilograms of personal effects
besides his uniforms, these being considered Ship's Furnishing. As
his rank and responsibility merit, the Captain is allowed double this
ration. He may thus bring aboard with him some forty-five pounds of
books, playing-cards, knitting-wool, whiskey or what have you to help
him while away the hours between the planets. Bailey, I knew for a
fact, had used up his weight-allowance in bringing aboard a case of
spices: marjoram and mint, costmary, file powder, basil and allspice,
and a dozen others.

Captain Winkelmann was not a reader, and had brought no books. Cards
interested him not at all, as card-playing implies a sociability alien
to his nature. He never drank aboard ship. I had supposed that he'd
exercised his option of returning his personal-effects weight allowance
to the owners for the consideration of one hundred dollars a kilogram.
To collect the maximum allowance, spacers have been known to come
aboard their ship mother-naked.

But this was not the case with Winkelmann. His personal-effects
baggage, an unlabeled cardboard box, appeared under the table at noon
mess some hundred days out from Piano West. Winkelmann rested his feet
on the mysterious box as he sat to eat.

"What disgusting form does the ship's garbage appear in today,
Belly-Robber?" he asked the Cook.

Bailey frowned, but kept his temper, an asceticism in which by now he'd
had much practice. "I've been working on the problem of steak, Sir,"
he said. "I think I've whipped the taste; what was left was to get the
texture steak-like. Do you understand, Sir?"

"I understand," Winkelmann growled. "You intend that your latest mess
should feel like steak to the mouth, and not like baby-food. Right?"

"Yes, Sir," Bailey said. "Well, I squeezed the
steak-substrate--Chlorella, of course, with all sorts of special
seasonings--through a sieve, and blanched the strands in hot algaeal
oil. Then I chopped those strands to bits and rolled them out. _Voila!_
I had something very close in texture to the muscle-fibers of genuine
meat."

"Remarkable, Bailey," I said.

"It rather throws me off my appetite to hear how you muddle about with
our food," the Captain said, his jowls settling into an expression of
distaste. "It's quite all right to eat lobster, for example, but I
never cared to see the ugly beast boiled before my eyes. Detail spoils
the meal."

Bailey lifted the cover off the electric warming-pan at the center of
the table and tenderly lifted a small "steak" onto each of our plates.
"Try it," he urged the Captain.
