
Captain Winkelmann sliced off a corner of his algaeal steak. The
color was an excellent medium-rare, the odor was the rich smell
of fresh-broiled beef. Winkelmann bit down, chewed, swallowed. "Not
too bad, Belly-Robber," he said, nodding. Bailey grinned and bobbed
his head, his hands folded before him in an ecstasy of pleasure. A
kind word from the Captain bettered the ruffles-and-flourishes of a
more reasonable man. "But it still needs something ... something,"
Winkelmann went on, slicing off another portion of the tasty Chlorella.
"Aha! I have it!"

"Yes, Sir?" Bailey asked.

"This, Belly-Robber!" Winkelmann reached beneath the mess-table and
ripped open his cardboard carton. He brought out a bottle and unscrewed
the cap. "Ketchup," he said, splattering the red juice over Bailey's
masterpiece. "The scarlet burial-shroud for the failures of Cooks."
Lifting a hunk of the "steak," streaming ketchup, to his mouth,
Winkelmann chewed. "Just the thing," he smiled.

"Damn you!" Bailey shouted.

Winkelmann's smile flicked off, and his blue eyes pierced the Cook.

"... Sir," Bailey added.

"That's better," Winkelmann said, and took another bite. He said
meditatively, "Used with caution, and only by myself, I believe I have
sufficient ketchup here to see me through to Mars. Please keep a
bottle on the table for all my future meals, Belly-Robber."

"But, Sir...." Bailey began.

"You must realize, Belly-Robber, that a dyspeptic Captain is a threat
to the welfare of his ship. Were I to continue eating your surrealistic
slops for another hundred days, without the small consolation of
this sauce I had the foresight to bring with me, I'd likely be in
no condition to jet us safely down to the Piano West pad. Do you
understand, Belly-Robber?" he demanded.

"I understand that you're an ungrateful, impossible, square-headed,
slave-driving...."

"Watch your noun," Winkelmann cautioned the Cook. "Your adjectives are
insubordinate; your noun might prove mutinous."

"Captain, you've gone too far," I said. Bailey, his fists knotted, was
scarlet, his chest heaving with emotion.

"Doctor, I must point out to you that it ill behooves the Ship's
Surgeon to side with the Cook against the Captain," Winkelmann said.

"Sir, Bailey has tried hard to please you," I said. "The other officers
and the men have been more than satisfied with his work."

"That only suggests atrophy of their taste buds," Winkelmann said.
"Doctor, you are excused. As are you, Belly-Robber," he added.
