
There being only three seats in the _Sale's_ mess compartment, we ate
our meals in three shifts. That evening, going down the ladder to
supper, my nose was met with a spine-tingling barbecue tang, a smell
to make a man think of gray charcoal glowing in a picnic brazier,
of cicadas chirping and green grass underfoot, of the pop and hiss
of canned beer being church-keyed. "He's done it, Doc!" one of the
first-shift diners said. "It actually tastes of food!"

"Then he's beat the Captain at his game," I said.

"The Dutchman won't want to mess ketchup on these steaks," the crewman
said.

I sat, unfolded my napkin, and looked with hope to the electric
warming-pan at the center of the table. Bailey served the three of
us with the small "steaks." Each contained about a pound of dried
Chlorella, I judged, teasing mine with my fork. But they were drenched
in a gravy rich as the stuff grandma used to make in her black iron
skillet, peppery and seasoned with courageous bits of garlic. I cut
a bit from my steak and chewed it. Too tender, of course; there are
limits to art. But the pond-scum taste was gone. Bailey appeared in the
galley door. I gestured for him to join me. "You've done it, Bailey,"
I said. "Every Slimehead in orbit will thank you for this. This is
actually _good_."

"Thanks, Doc," Bailey said.

I smiled and took another bite. "You may not realize it, Bailey; but
this is a victory for the Captain, too. He drove you to this triumph;
you couldn't have done it without him."

"You mean he was just whipping me on, trying to make me do better?"
Bailey asked.

"He was driving you to do the impossible," I said; "and you did it. Our
Captain may be a hard man, Bailey; but he did know how to coax maximum
performance out of his Ship's Cook."

Bailey stood up. "Do you like Captain Winkelmann, Doctor?" he asked.

I thought about his question a moment. Winkelmann was good at his job.
He persuaded his men by foul means, true; but it was all for the good
of the ship and his crew. "Do I like Captain Winkelmann?" I asked,
spearing another piece of my artificial steak. "Bailey, I'm afraid I'll
have to admit that I do."

Bailey smiled and lifted a second steak from the warming-pan onto my
plate. "Then have another piece," he said.



