
When I woke up, the first thing I knew was that Harry, Jr., was
screaming. I groggily stood up, and stepped over Mabel, who was just
beginning to moan. I went to the nursery and grabbed up my baby. "Don't
cry," I begged him. "Don't be mad. I'll get your Drinko back. Those
dirty thieves, I'll get it back." I held him under one arm, his pants
dripping. I think I looked like a Pekinese, with my hair over my eyes. I
went to the 'phone, dialed Harry's number, and got the same routine.

"I _don't_ have the wrong dimension," I cried before the operator could
hang up. "This is an emergency. A couple of crooks stole my Drinko.
Please get me the dimension-police."

"You have a Drinko?" the operator asked cautiously. "There must be some
mistake. You are calling from Earth? From 1954? I am sorry. Congress
ruled Earth 1954 could not be connected with the dimension-system. It
would be impossible for you to own a Drinko."

"Some crooks from 1964 stole my Drinko!" I insisted.

"One moment, please. The Supervisor informs me this is an unauthorized
call. It will be necessary to conduct a police investigation." There
were clickings, there were buzzings, there were groups of fuzzy, far-off
voices, and finally the police came in.

"A couple of crooks stole my baby's Drinko!" I repeated loudly. "I
demand my rights as a dimension-citizen!"

"Two thieves confiscated your Drinko," a dry voice said. "Very well.
Describe them, please. Describe characteristic phrases, expressions, and
voice-intonations also." I described them. "Very good. Did you say Earth
1954? Excellent. Only a matter of six dimensions and thirty years. We
shall investigate immediately." He hung up.

"Hi, Stella," said Mabel, up on one elbow and looking fuzzily at me.
"You think I'll get out of this in time to get Bill's dinner in the
oven? Bill's so darned touchy about dinner."

"Teach him a lesson, then," I snapped, disgusted with her, and running
to the door, because somebody was knocking there. "Train him. Disappoint
him. Break his pattern. Don't have dinner. Good evening, gentlemen," I
said as I opened the door. The police came in. They had Beany. They had
Jake.
