
The helicopter droned out over the open sea in the afternoon sun. It
was much noisier than the airliner that had been Gerson's only other
trip into the upper air, he thought, looking ahead. The island was not
yet visible.

"Think you'll win the hundred thousand?" the pilot asked, speaking
loudly. He was a young man of Gerson's own age, with a cheerful round
face.

"What? Oh ... I certainly hope so." Gerson peered out over the smooth
water. "How long a trip is it?"

"Oh, not so long now," the pilot assured him. "Nice little island,
too. I wouldn't mind this deal even if I didn't get the money. It's a
first class vacation, hey?"

"I guess it is," Gerson said. "Kind of lonesome, though."

"Well, if they'd sent a girl too, you might not want to come back," the
pilot grinned. "Anyway, think about all that money. That'll keep you
from feeling too lonesome."

Gerson smiled back at him.

"I sure could do a lot with it," he said.

"I remember getting stuck up at Thule Two, up in the Arctic, when I was
flying commercial last year," the pilot said. "Nobody there but a radio
man and another pilot. Too cold to go outside, even. _That's_ what I'd
call lonesome."

On the horizon, a blue-green ridge began to lift above the water line.

"There it is," said the pilot. "Be there in another five minutes."

The copter landed on a long, smooth beach, with a picture postcard
ocean lapping at the white sand. The pilot showed Don around the
place with an almost proprietorial pride, pointing out the various
conveniences, and giving advice.

"The house is a real doll," he told Don. "Never lived in. A rich fella
owned the place, and was going to use it for vacations, but he never
got around to it. Incidentally, it'll be for sale when the stunt's
over. Whopping price, too, I'll bet."

There was hot and cold running water, an electrical system powered by
a gas engine, furniture, even a pair of swimming trunks hanging in a
closet with other clothes.

"There's a laugh," the pilot observed, pointing to the trunks. "You
won't need _them_."

"Well, if I go swimming ..." Don said.

"The swimming's fine, but you won't have any company to worry about
what you wear," the pilot said. Don had never been entirely alone
in his life; it took him a moment to grasp this small detail in the
picture of his immediate future.

"Oh," he said, doubtfully. "Well, you know there's seaweed and all
that...."
