
There was a typewriter, and a stack of paper. Don began to set down his
general view of the way that events would be happening in the outside
world, trying to anticipate every possible question. He assumed, to
begin with, that the questions would not be too obscure; but that left
a large area of possibilities, anyway.

Each day he wrote for several hours, and read for several more.
Sometimes he would get too interested in some line of reading that
would take him into areas which, he felt, would not be likely to enter
the questions. At first he pulled himself out of those lines with an
abrupt snapping shut of the offending book. But for three days he got
farther and farther afield on a line that began with a book on a recent
archaeological expedition and led him through a file of _National
Geographics_, clear back to the article on Ancient Egypt in the
encyclopedia. From that point he found it harder and harder to guess
at the possible line that the questions might take, and he wrote on in
any direction his fancy took.

_If the questions dealt with the elections_, he wrote, _the first
possible ones might be on the names of the candidates. Also, the
platforms and general tendencies. Now, the possible Democratic party
candidates are...._

And again, _There might be another change in Soviet politics, but in
the articles in_ Time _and in_ The Reporter _the writers say that the
present group is likely to continue in power for at least a while.
However, if he should ask about something which sounds as if it went in
that direction, I could assume that the present premier might die; he's
old, and can't live much longer._

Don had always been a baseball fan, and his opinions in that area were
firmly rooted in both his own past and in the thick file of sports
pages of newspapers. _The Dodgers will probably win the pennant, and
the Giants will probably sell their pitcher Joe Kenner. In boxing...._

He was fairly certain about the outcome of various sports events. But
when it came to science, he discovered whole worlds of which he had
only heard vaguely before. There were things which he understood only
with difficulty, and he began to realize, with a sense of shock, how
inadequate his school "science" classes had been. But he didn't worry;
he could easily predict that this class of question would have to do
either with something medical or something about atomics. He found a
great deal of already predicted material in both those fields; every
magazine had a doctor writing about which disease would be conquered
next, and how soon; and a number of articles gave details on how soon
atomic power plants would be running, and what kinds of bombs would be
tested next.

Don's choice of accountancy had been motivated by a liking for logic
and orderliness; he began to find a fascination in the logic and
orderliness of science. His picture of a scientist had been vague at
best, a picture formed from newspaper photos of Einstein, with his
white hair blowing, and of movie scientists, bending over strange
machines and creating monsters.

At one point Don found the history and viewpoints of science drawing
him into reading that could not possibly be used in the questioning.
Reluctantly, and resolving to go back to that area, he moved on.

_The oil workers union has a contract which runs out next month_, he
wrote, _and they have always had a strike at this point in their last
few years. If they do strike, there will probably be a temporary
shortage of fuel and gasoline. This might be the right answer if the
question is, What strike is affecting the country most now?_

Back into politics once more, Don began to extend his guessing, as he
read further.

_The UN investigation of the situation in South Africa will be resumed,
and the South African delegation will withdraw again. It looks as
if there is a very good chance of native rebellions in French North
Africa, so that a question which pointed to Africa might deal with
either situation._

After a while, Don had worked around to the Far East, and became more
and more interested. His orderly habits led him into a pattern in
which he organized the most likely events into a future history which
covered, in detail, the things that would happen in the whole world,
to a point that went into the next few years. In fact, he noticed
abruptly, the vista ahead had grown brightly clear, and was still
extending. He told himself that when he returned, he would continue to
write his history of the future.

Just for fun, though, he said to himself. Nobody would be really
interested in such a thing except himself, and he was no writer. But it
looked as if he might have found a real hobby, Don told himself. Why,
he didn't even miss television.
