
In the middle of the third year, he completed a radio receiver, made
from wire stripped from the useless generator and using the crystal
receiver principle. It had a pinpoint balanced on an old razor blade.
There had been a description of the method of making such a receiver
in a mechanics magazine, and Don had done it carefully. It took him a
long time, because he did not find the job very interesting except when
he was tired of reading and writing. Also, he had spent a long time
extracting the blank leaves from all of the books so that he would have
plenty of writing paper.

The receiver seemed to be a workable design. However, all he could hear
was a steady crackle and hiss, and, during storms, the sounds made by
distant lightning.

Things went well, otherwise. His garden grew with a minimum of
attention; he had learned the easiest methods of fishing, and he could
not have named a single thing that he did not have that he would want.

The history grew longer. It was bound, volume by volume, in covers
removed from books that were then piled carefully away. Don had found
a way to bleach out the pages of printed matter, but there were only
a few books that he could bring himself to turn into writing paper in
this manner. In his notes, he used the term "palimpsest"; he knew what
it meant by now.

_2234. The last queen of England, not possessing any political power,
was nevertheless regarded with great respect by the people of Britain,
and her death at an advanced age was the occasion for great public
mourning. However, since she had left no direct descendant, her
entombment in the rebuilt Westminster Abbey marked the final end of the
monarchy, even as a symbol._

_The year 2234 also marked the first serious attempt to cross
interstellar space, in a giant ship which was built to house a large
colony of travelers for a long time._

_Among the books published in 2234 were new works by the famous
historian and scholar Nosreg, and his contemporary Songre. "The Tragedy
of Man" by the playwright Gresno played to great audiences over the
Solar Television Network...._

Thoughtfully, Don pulled at his graying beard. He was considering the
plays of Gresno, and feeling, very mildly, a longing to see them. But,
he reminded himself, it would be a long time before Gresno would even
be born. Meanwhile, the afternoon sun was warm against his back, here
on the porch, and he still had a great deal of white paper. He took up
the sea-gull quill and began to write once more.

