
“I’m Bill of Buck Hill!” the man murmured in his throat, so that it
sounded like a growl; and then, louder, “I’m Rearin’ Bill of Buck Hill!”

He looked around rather expectantly, and raised his chin higher,
throwing back his head.

“I’m Rearin’ Bill of Big Buck Hill!” he shouted. “I’m two yards wide and
nine feet high--_Woo-who-o! Woo-who-o!_”

At that shout--“_Woo-who-o!_”--men, standing at every bar around the
square and all the way down to the Claybank Delight, turned and glanced
at one another.

“’Tain’t Texas!” One shook his head. “That’d be _e-yeow-w!_”

“’Tain’t Prairie--hit’d be _Hi-i-i-i!_”

“’Tain’t Rebel--’tain’t Yank.” An old veteran shook his head.

“’Tain’t old Mississip’ shanty boat landing whoop er soundin’ hail.”

“Ner mule skinnin’ cowboy--none of them!” another declared.

“That’s green timber!” a square shouldered, high headed man remarked as
he turned a sheet of a weekly paper in the lobby of Squint Legere’s
hotel.

“My lan’! He’s bad!” A bystander shook his head. “Y’ c’n tell that--the
way he growls-- My lan’!”

“Who is he?” some one asked, and another raised a warning hand.

“Cyarful, ol’ man! He’s from Buck Hill. I’ve been t’ Buck Hill. Hit’s
way yonder in the head of Snake Creek Bad Lands. My land’! I was glad
the sun didn’t set on me up theh; yes, indeedy! He’s Rearin’ Bill--my
lan’! Don’t ’tagonise ’im. He comes from a bad country!”

The hoarse, rumbling growling of the man thus identified came around the
square in the middle of the street. Horses hitched along the rails
turned their heads to look at the phenomenon going by, twitching their
tails and snorting a little under their breaths. A dog ran out in the
dark from the sidewalk, wagging its tail, yipping as it pranced. Rearing
Bill turned and growled at the vagrant beast, and the dog stood on its
hind legs in an enthusiastic invitation to come on and play!

Some one laughed in the gloom of a passageway between two saloons.
Rearing Bill threw a bullet into that shadow insult and then slammed two
shots which sent the dog squealing in creased terror the other way
around the square. A man’s yell of alarm rose frantically from the
passageway and the clatter of loose boards and the fall of a stack of
booming empty kegs reverberated around.

“_Woo-who-o!_” Rearing Bill whooped, and the echoes returned from faces
of Bad Land cliffs.

“Lawse, he c’n shore yell!” listeners said in low voices.
