
As the big fellow shambled nearer, the gamblers around the tables
hesitated, the drinkers at the bars held their liquor poised, looking
over their shoulders at the front doors; and those with nothing special
to divide their attention withdrew to the rear or side entrances. The
bartenders, who must perforce stay and take it, wiped their hands on
their aprons, their fingers twiddling, all except Flat Face Dink of
Squint Legere’s liquid annex. Flat Face Dink lifted the corner of his
lips; then he gave the long, red, cherry wood bar an extra dry polish.

“My gracious!” the observing Tid Ricks whispered. “Dink don’t care f’r
anybody in the world! He’s all nerve, Dink is! Come the devil himself
and Flat Face’d say to him, ‘Name yer pisen, old boy--how’s hell t’day?’
He would, honest! I bet he would.”

A heavy footfall out in front of Legere’s shook the planks till they
boomed and creaked. Rearing Bill of Big Buck Hill surged into the middle
of the barroom. Tid Ricks shrank into a corner. Patrons along the bar
watched anxiously through the mirror reflections. Flat Face Dink
deliberately turned his back and stacked up a pyramid of glasses.

“I want pisen!” the newcomer declared, shambling toward the bar, where
they gave him ten feet width according to his size, looks and actions.

Flat Face Dink flipped up a quart bottle, tall, straight sided and long
necked, and set up a thick, fluted glass to hold two good liquor drinks.
Rearing Bill looked at the glass, picking it up.

“Put ’r thar, mister!” Rearing Bill said, enthusiastically. “You got a
measure ’cording to the man here--put ’r thar!”

Flat Face Dink colored happily under that praise, and drank with Rearing
Bill, something he never did except with the most distinguished of
patrons.

Rearing Bill holstered his gun with the stained ivory handles. He was a
gentleman among gentlemen, in Squint Legere’s, all on account of the
appreciation of Flat Face Dink of the appropriateness of measures for a
man, serving glasses according to one’s size. Rearing Bill surged forth
into the street again, popped away a couple of times and went on his
way.

He began to sing:

    “I’m Rearing Bill of Big Buck Hill.
        Snake pisen is my cure.
    Of human flesh I eat my fill;
        An’ I takes my whisky pure.”

He ended the verse with a chorus of shots. He aimed at lights, which
crashed in broken glass, for he could shoot pretty straight. His gunfire
made the horses nervous, and they pranced around. When he was on one
side of the square men scurried on the opposite side to remove their
mounts, either racing out to the livery barn and corral or down toward
Strollers’ Campground on the creek bottom.

Rearing Bill’s horse was built on his own generous scale, but he had
begun to ride it when it was too young; and now the beast, which would
have been a good draft horse, was a swayback with a tired look in the
lop of its ears. When Rearing Bill came by, however, the animal pranced
and shook nervously.
