
There was in Boxelder a shiftless, shaky, friendless hanger-on known as
Odd Jobbing Det Linver, a huddled up, raggedly dressed fellow who was
kicked around by every one. There had been an interval of ten or fifteen
minutes’ quiet when Odd Jobbing Det appeared in Squint Legere’s barroom.
The man who had been reading the weekly paper in the lobby laid it on
the hotel clerk’s desk and entered the barroom from the lobby just as
Det entered from the rear alley, looking anxiously behind him.

Rearing Bill had catfooted, as softly as a grizzly bear on the sneak,
into the front entrance. Flat Face Dink looked up with a genial smile of
welcome, so the bully grinned widely as he started for the bar. Thus Odd
Jobbing Det backed right into the very big fellow he was scared to meet.
It was an abrupt collision.

Rearing Bill grunted. He glanced around, stopped and saw the cringing,
shrinking wretch who looked up at him with utterly abject fear. For an
instant Rearing Bill stared and glared; then he began to grin as he
surged at the victim thus thrown in his way. Odd Jobbing Det backed till
he was stopped by the wall. Then Rearing Bill cuffed and kicked, abusing
the wretched weakling, who blubbered, whimpered, choked and begged. The
more he pleaded for mercy the more the bully slapped and poked him with
the big revolver.

“I’ve a notion to kill you,” Rearing Bill suggested tentatively,
“’sultin’ me thataway. I’ve a notion to cut yer heart out an’ eat it!
I’ve a notion to shoot ye--’sultin’ me. Me--bumping into me--walkin’ all
over me. I’ve a notion to kill an’ eat ye f’r breakfast--”’

The spectators, shrinking along the walls, edging away, froze with
expectancy as they saw the tentative suggestion of murder congealing
into determination to kill. Rearing Bill had worked himself up to a
fury. He was weaving in savage ferocity. He glanced around, covertly
from under his bushy brows, taking in the white faces and the fears in
the eyes of the beholders.

“Yes, sir, I’m going t’ kill you!” he suddenly snarled.

But, like a cat playing with a victim Rearing Bill deliberately delayed.
Here was a worthless, terror stricken, utterly helpless and friendless
victim. Odd Jobbing Det looked his sorry misery and his voice went up in
a shrill breaking wail of hopeless terror, for he felt the drunken
brute’s determination to “get a man”, establishing a reputation as bad,
killing to see a victim kick.

The man who had been reading the paper gazed curiously at the spectacle.
He had recognized the whoop of Rearing Bill as that of a green timber
woodsman, a logger from the pine, spruce or hemlock belt somewhere. Now
he saw the big fellow clearly and, staring at him in surprise,
recognized him.

“Why, you damned skunk!” he muttered, just like that, and started
straight across the barroom, bare handed.

There was a gasp of amazement among the other spectators. Rearing Bill
heard or felt the difference in the echo. He froze for an instant as he
cunningly turned his eyes to look out of their corners. He discovered
the swift approach of the spectator and turned to look.

Rearing Bill’s face convulsed. A regular gorilla expression of ugliness
and cruelty crossed his features. He had clicked his teeth and shaken
his tangled mane, fluffing up his steel black whiskers. At sight of the
interrupter he shrank in precisely the same way that Odd Jobbing Det had
done, and lines of cruel satisfaction changed to the same quivering of
terror and pleading.

“I didn’t mean nothing! I didn’t mean nothing! I were jes’ foolin’!”
Rearing Bill’s voice rose higher and shriller. “I wa’n’t really goin’ to
hurt ’im, Mister Benson! Hones’--honest!”

“You lie!” the other exclaimed, cuffing the big face backhandedly. Under
cover of the stinging blow, Benson snatched the huge revolver from the
loose grasp of the bully’s hand.

Then with the barrel of the weapon Benson pounded the big fellow across
the floor, backward. Rearing Bill yelped, cried out, choked and at last
turned to run. Contemptuously, Benson gave him a kick; and then as the
bully yelled he fired the big gun at the floor under him so that the
huge boots bobbed high and thumped to frantic efforts at escape,
crashing out into the night. Outside Rearing Bill raced, plunging to the
swayback drayhorse, and he rode furiously away in the dark, heading up
Snake Creek.
