
When he was out of hearing, his nervous yelps lost away in the Bad Land
distance, the crowd came back into Squint Legere’s barroom to see what
miracle had changed the echo of Rearing Bill’s whoops. They found the
other stranger, Benson, unloading Rearing Bill’s revolver of the yellow
stained ivory handles. Bystanders whispered excitedly at what this
fellow had done, barehanded, right after calling Rearing Bill a skunk.

“My lan’!” Tid Ricks gasped. “I never hoped to see anybody brave as
that--my, gracious! He just acted like he wa’n’t ’fraid of nothing in
the world, yes, sir! Why, he slapped that big feller ’fore he even took
his gun away! It was the nerviest thing anybody eveh did get to see!”

Squint Legere did the honors. Benson just must take a drink.

“I’ll take one,” he assented, “and no more.”

He meant it. No one urged, or even suggested, a second drink. Benson
went to the night clerk for his room key. Legere checked him at the foot
of the stairs.

“Excuse me,” Legere said. “’Course, I mind my own business--but you knew
him?”

“Oh, yes! Went to school together.”

“That so! Back East, I expect?”

“Yes, Minnesota.”

“That makes me think. You’re Benson--Robert Benson,” Legere said, “I see
by the register.”

“Oh, yes!”

“Not--uh--not Patient Bob--uh?”

“Why--” the flicker of a reminiscent smile crossed his face--“I’ve been
called that--”

“Shu-u!” Squint exclaimed, softly. “’Course, I mind my own business,
Mister Benson!”

“’Course, know that. Well, goodnight!”

Squint Legere returned to the bar where he was awaited with interest by
a curious crowd.

“He’s Patient Bob,” Squint remarked in a low voice.

“Not ---- Say, Patient Bob Benson! Shu-u-u-u!” voices gasped.

“An’ I seen ’im settin’ theh all the ev’ing, reading the paper, cool as
you please!” Tid Ricks broke the silence. “Why, he neveh even looked up
when that old fourflusher come shootin’ by, no, suh! I seen it with my
own eyes. I knowed he was _good_. Same time I neveh dreamed he was
Patient Bob--but when he got to goin’--’course--”

“’Course!” others assented. “Anybody’d knowed, then, he was _good_!”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the July 15, 1928 issue of
Adventure magazine.]

