
The phone chimed. Malloy flipped it on with a practiced hand.

"Malloy here."

"Mr. Malloy?" said a careful voice. "A special communication for you has
been teletyped in from Earth. Shall I bring it in?"

"Bring it in, Miss Drayson."

Miss Drayson was a case in point. She was uncommunicative. She liked to
gather in information, but she found it difficult to give it up once it
was in her possession.

Malloy had made her his private secretary. Nothing--but _nothing_--got
out of Malloy's office without his direct order. It had taken Malloy a
long time to get it into Miss Drayson's head that it was perfectly all
right--even desirable--for her to keep secrets from everyone except
Malloy.

She came in through the door, a rather handsome woman in her middle
thirties, clutching a sheaf of papers in her right hand as though
someone might at any instant snatch it from her before she could turn it
over to Malloy.

She laid them carefully on the desk. "If anything else comes in, I'll
let you know immediately, sir," she said. "Will there be anything else?"

Malloy let her stand there while he picked up the communique. She wanted
to know what his reaction was going to be; it didn't matter because no
one would ever find out from her what he had done unless she was ordered
to tell someone.

He read the first paragraph, and his eyes widened involuntarily.

"Armistice," he said in a low whisper. "There's a chance that the war
may be over."

"Yes, sir," said Miss Drayson in a hushed voice.

Malloy read the whole thing through, fighting to keep his emotions in
check. Miss Drayson stood there calmly, her face a mask; her emotions
were a secret.

Finally, Malloy looked up. "I'll let you know as soon as I reach a
decision, Miss Drayson. I think I hardly need say that no news of this
is to leave this office."

"Of course not, sir."

Malloy watched her go out the door without actually seeing her. The war
was over--at least for a while. He looked down at the papers again.

The Karna, slowly being beaten back on every front, were suing for
peace. They wanted an armistice conference--immediately.

Earth was willing. Interstellar war is too costly to allow it to
continue any longer than necessary, and this one had been going on for
more than thirteen years now. Peace was necessary. But not peace at any
price.

The trouble was that the Karna had a reputation for losing wars and
winning at the peace table. They were clever, persuasive talkers. They
could twist a disadvantage to an advantage, and make their own strengths
look like weaknesses. If they won the armistice, they'd be able to
retrench and rearm, and the war would break out again within a few
years.

Now--at this point in time--they could be beaten. They could be forced
to allow supervision of the production potential, forced to disarm,
rendered impotent. But if the armistice went to their own advantage ...

Already, they had taken the offensive in the matter of the peace talks.
They had sent a full delegation to Saarkkad V, the next planet out from
the Saarkkad sun, a chilly world inhabited only by low-intelligence
animals. The Karna considered this to be fully neutral territory, and
Earth couldn't argue the point very well. In addition, they demanded
that the conference begin in three days, Terrestrial time.

The trouble was that interstellar communication beams travel a devil of
a lot faster than ships. It would take more than a week for the Earth
government to get a vessel to Saarkkad V. Earth had been caught
unprepared for an armistice. They objected.

The Karna pointed out that the Saarkkad sun was just as far from Karn as
it was from Earth, that it was only a few million miles from a planet
which was allied with Earth, and that it was unfair for Earth to take so
much time in preparing for an armistice. Why hadn't Earth been prepared?
Did they intend to fight to the utter destruction of Karn?

It wouldn't have been a problem at all if Earth and Karn had fostered
the only two intelligent races in the galaxy. The sort of grandstanding
the Karna were putting on had to be played to an audience. But there
were other intelligent races throughout the galaxy, most of whom had
remained as neutral as possible during the Earth-Karn war. They had no
intention of sticking their figurative noses into a battle between the
two most powerful races in the galaxy.

But whoever won the armistice would find that some of the now-neutral
races would come in on their side if war broke out again. If the Karna
played their cards right, their side would be strong enough next time to
win.

So Earth had to get a delegation to meet with the Karna representatives
within the three-day limit or lose what might be a vital point in the
negotiations.

And that was where Bertrand Malloy came in.

He had been appointed Minister and Plenipotentiary Extraordinary to the
Earth-Karn peace conference.

He looked up at the ceiling again. "What _can_ I do?" he said softly.
