
By the time the ship from Earth got there, the peace conference had been
going on for four days. Bertrand Malloy had full reports on the whole
parley, as relayed to him through the ship that had taken Nordon and
Braynek to Saarkkad V.

Secretary of State Blendwell stopped off at Saarkkad IV before going on
to V to take charge of the conference. He was a tallish, lean man with a
few strands of gray hair on the top of his otherwise bald scalp, and he
wore a hearty, professional smile that didn't quite make it to his
calculating eyes.

He took Malloy's hand and shook it warmly. "How are you, Mr.
Ambassador?"

"Fine, Mr. Secretary. How's everything on Earth?"

"Tense. They're waiting to see what is going to happen on Five. So am I,
for that matter." His eyes were curious. "You decided not to go
yourself, eh?"

"I thought it better not to. I sent a good team, instead. Would you like
to see the reports?"

"I certainly would."

Malloy handed them to the secretary, and as he read, Malloy watched him.
Blendwell was a political appointee--a good man, Malloy had to admit,
but he didn't know all the ins and outs of the Diplomatic Corps.

When Blendwell looked up from the reports at last, he said: "Amazing!
They've held off the Karna at every point! They've beaten them back!
They've managed to cope with and outdo the finest team of negotiators
the Karna could send."

"I thought they would," said Malloy, trying to appear modest.

The secretary's eyes narrowed. "I've heard of the work you've been doing
here with ... ah ... sick men. Is this one of your ... ah ...
successes?"

Malloy nodded. "I think so. The Karna put us in a dilemma, so I threw a
dilemma right back at them."

"How do you mean?"

"Nordon had a mental block against making decisions. If he took a girl
out on a date, he'd have trouble making up his mind whether to kiss her
or not until she made up his mind for him, one way or the other. He's
that kind of guy. Until he's presented with one, single, clear decision
which admits of no alternatives, he can't move at all.

"As you can see, the Karna tried to give us several choices on each
point, and they were all rigged. Until they backed down to a single
point and proved that it _wasn't_ rigged, Nordon couldn't possibly make
up his mind. I drummed into him how important this was, and the more
importance there is attached to his decisions, the more incapable he
becomes of making them."

The Secretary nodded slowly. "What about Braynek?"

"Paranoid," said Malloy. "He thinks everyone is plotting against him. In
this case, that's all to the good because the Karna _are_ plotting
against him. No matter what they put forth, Braynek is convinced that
there's a trap in it somewhere, and he digs to find out what the trap
is. Even if there isn't a trap, the Karna can't satisfy Braynek, because
he's convinced that there _has_ to be--somewhere. As a result, all his
advice to Nordon, and all his questioning on the wildest possibilities,
just serves to keep Nordon from getting unconfused.

"These two men are honestly doing their best to win at the peace
conference, and they've got the Karna reeling. The Karna can see that
we're not trying to stall; our men are actually working at trying to
reach a decision. But what the Karna don't see is that those men, as a
team, are unbeatable because, in this situation, they're psychologically
incapable of losing."

Again the Secretary of State nodded his approval, but there was still a
question in his mind. "Since you know all that, couldn't you have
handled it yourself?"

"Maybe, but I doubt it. They might have gotten around me someway by
sneaking up on a blind spot. Nordon and Braynek have blind spots, but
they're covered with armor. No, I'm glad I couldn't go; it's better this
way."

The Secretary of State raised an eyebrow. "_Couldn't_ go, Mr.
Ambassador?"

Malloy looked at him. "Didn't you know? I wondered why you appointed me,
in the first place. No, I couldn't go. The reason why I'm here, cooped
up in this office, hiding from the Saarkkada the way a good Saarkkadic
bigshot should, is because I _like_ it that way. I suffer from
agoraphobia and xenophobia.

"I have to be drugged to be put on a spaceship because I can't take all
that empty space, even if I'm protected from it by a steel shell." A
look of revulsion came over his face. "And I can't _stand_ aliens!"


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Astounding Science Fiction_ March
    1960. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



