
"So that's Mercury," exclaimed Billy Hatch, four days later, as
he stared goggle-eyed into the visiplate. This was his first
interplanetary trip.

"Yep," said Karns, "That's her, the doggonedest planet barrin' none in
the whole dad-frazzled system. After you've been here you can tell 'em
you've seen wind blow, and I mean blow. That's what them rakes is for.
To get around you lie down on your belly and pull yourself along by
them. It's a helluva place. The sun on your back'd fry you, 'cepting
there's always a ice-cold hurricane cooling you off."

"How can that be, cap'n?"

"Convection's the ten-sol word for it. It's cause she's sizzling hot
on one side and colder'n the underside of a iceberg on t'other. The
wind goes straight up over the desert and comes straight down over
the back side glaciers. Then it scoots for the desert again--and how!
Nobody could live an hour in any part of the place if it warn't for
the temp'rate strip, and that's cockeyed enough. You gotta steady,
hundred-two-hundred-mile wind going straight into the sun, for that's
right down to the horizon. In the lee of a house you burn up, in the
shade of it you'd freeze solid in five minutes. And the houses have to
be stone and streamlined."

Hank Karns kept a watchful eye on the terrain coming up to meet them.
Mooring a ship in that wind required the utmost art.

"As I told you, itsa helluva place. Nuthing grows there but a sort of
grass and some moss. The only animals is varmints, like the cangrela
and the trocklebeck. It's cangrela claws and trocklebeck hides we trade
for."

Billy Hatch listened, wide-eyed. This was romance.

"The trocklebeck is a critter something on the order of a armadillo,
only it's got horns and big claws to hang onto the ground. It grazes,
with its head allus into the wind. The cangrela is built along
the lines of a crab and has claws, too. It crawls up behind the
trocklebeck and kills 'em while they're feeding. Trocklebeck scales and
cangrela claws are both harder'n hell. They use 'em in machinery."

"Oh," said Billy Hatch.

"But you better git forrard there and tend to them grapples, 'cause
a-gitting hold of the ground here is ticklish business. Ef we miss it's
just too bad. We'll roll over and over for miles and miles, like as
not."

Hank Karns said no more for a time. As a matter of fact, he was far
from ready to land. He had deliberately come up on the wrong side
of the planet for making the landing at Sam Atkins' little trading
store. He wanted to give it a general bird's-eye view. It was in a
valley scooped out by the wind that he saw the first sign of a major
alteration. Behind a huge artificial wind-break lay a group of new
buildings, and one of them was dome-topped with a squat chimney. A
matter of ten miles farther away was another new house and a small
warehouse behind it. Just over the next low ridge lay Atkins' place.

"Standby," warned Hank Karns, as he brought the ship's nose into the
hurricane and began losing altitude. "Don't let go 'til I tell you--and
that'll be when we're practically down."

Just as the keel kissed the ground, Karns gave the signal and the
anchors fell. At the same instant he cut his rockets and the ship began
falling away to leeward, dragging her anchors behind. In a moment they
grabbed, pulled loose and grabbed again. That time they held. Karns
released a long pent-up sigh. It was a perfect landing. Sam Atkins'
house lay but a bare hundred yards on the quarter.

There was still the business of shooting a wire over the trading post
and making it fast at both ends, Atkins coming out to do his share.
Then Captain Karns slid down the wire to the shack and allowed himself
to be hauled in by the trading post keeper.

"I'm glad to see you, Cap'n, and sorry at the same time," was his
greeting from Sam Atkins. Atkins was a grumpy sort and a self-made
hermit. He seemed to enjoy the solitude of windswept Mercury and the
tedious, strenuous work of snaring cangrelas.

"How come sorry, Sam?" asked Hank Karns, as innocently as if he had
never visited Venus.

Atkins looked mournfully at him and jerked a thumb eastward.

"I've got neighbors--bad ones. Whatever you do, don't go over there.
They'll trick you somehow. They don't want outsiders coming here,
they've got a ship of their own that makes a trip every week or so."

Hank Karns raised his eyebrows.

"Trocklebecks must be breeding faster'n they used to," he observed.
"Mercury never produced enough to justify more than two trips a year,
if that."

"Trocklebecks," stated Atkins, "are practically extinct. And the
cangrelas are starving. I doubt if I could scare up four cases of prime
claws to save my soul. It's _pagras_ that's doing it. The place is
crawling with them. They bite the trockelbecks and they curl up and
die."

"Mmm," commented Hank Karns. He remembered those serpents well. They
were originally a Venusian beast--a variety of dragon, and extremely
venomous. They were really legged snakes, having thirty-six pairs
of taloned legs and crab-like claws near the head, but the body was
slender, rarely exceeding a yard in girth, for all their thirty-foot
lengths.

"I'm closing up shop here," said the gloomy Atkins next. "You can take
the pick of what I own if you'll set me down at the next stop you make."

"Now you just keep your shirt on, Sam Atkins," replied Hank Karns, "I'm
not a-doing anything of the damn kind. I'm going over and have a talk
with those gents in the next valley...."

Sam Atkins glared at him.

"No fool like an old fool," he remarked, hopelessly.

Hank Karns chuckled.

"Seems folks are agreed pretty well about me. But let's eat, so I can
get along my way."

Unmooring and getting in the anchors was a troublesome job with only
a green boy for a helper, but Hank Karns managed it. At that it was a
much easier maneuver to move the ship that mile over the ridge than to
try to crawl it in the teeth of a permanent typhoon. Moreover, if there
was cargo to take aboard--and Hank Karns felt sure there would be--the
ship would have to be moved anyhow. So he took off, circumnavigated the
planet, and came up again, this time to the little office building and
warehouse next to Atkins' shack. He took good care not to go near the
other group of buildings.

As he descended, casting about for a good spot to fling out his
grapnels he kept a sharp eye out for signs of life about the buildings.
All he saw was a couple of bronzed men, both bald as billiard balls,
working over some object in the lee of the warehouse. Upon sighting the
descending spaceship one went inside the warehouse and the other caught
hold of the guide-wire and let himself be blown down to what appeared
to be the office building. The man had on a heavily quilted suit of
gray material--quilted so that if he lost his hold and was blown away,
he would not bruise himself to death along the ground.

On the fourth try, Hank Karns managed to ground his ship not far from
the office door. This time he landed to leeward and had to make his way
up-wind by crawling, assisted by a Mercurian "staff," or one of the
rakes among his trade goods. As he crawled, he observed he was being
watched from a loophole beside the door. But as he drew himself erect,
the door opened and a man came out to greet him.

"Hello, Captain," said the man, cordially, "we're very glad to see you.
Come in and rest yourself." The man, Karns observed, was dressed in a
heavily quilted suit and was breathing heavily. But he had a full head
of hair and a luxuriant mustache.

"Howdy, yourself," returned the Lone Trader. "Phew! It's shore dusty
hereabouts--I've heard of the place but I never seen it. The far
Trojans is my bailiwick and the asteroids in that corner...."

"Really?" said the man, helping his visitor through the door. The
office was a single room, and no one else was in it. There was a bottle
of voilet-hued liquor on the table and two glasses. "Have a drink? This
is home brew--our Mercurian version of comet-dew--made from flowers
that grow under the glacier lips."

"Don't care ef I do," remarked Karns, and sat down in the seat
indicated. "As I was saying, I thought I'd look in on this place,
seeing as how I had to make the perihelion hop home. Have to git home
to see my oldest grandchild married."

"Wouldn't be interested in a bit of cargo, would you?" asked the man.
"Our own ship is overdue, and I have some freight for Venus."

"I'm allus interested in a bit of cargo," said Karns, "but this trip I
can't stop by Venus--time's too short."

"Oh, well," said his host, indifferently, "it doesn't matter about
that. I was thinking of shipping some boxes of claws and hides to
our agent at Venusberg for sale there. We are a new company and have
no outlets on Terra yet, unless you wanted to speculate on your own
account and buy them outright."

"Speculation's my business," said Hank Karns, serene and bland. And
added, with just a touch of foxiness, "_ef_ the buying price is right."

"Oh, we won't quarrel about that," laughed the man. "The hides are
a by-product with us--this is a pharmaceutical outfit. We make a
preparation from the hormones of these beasts. You can have the horns
at almost any price."

They spent the better part of an hour in good natured haggling, the
child-like old man raising first one trivial objection after another to
win small advantages--chiefly in the matter of valuation of the various
items of trade goods he had to offer. None of the lone traders ever
dealt in cash. The _Swapper_ was most appropriately named.

At last they shook on the bargain--and a bargain it most obviously was
from the trader's point of view. Mr. Raoul Dement, or so the company
man styled himself, presented the visiting captain two flasks of the
violet liquor after the old custom of the trade.

"Nice stuff," observed Hank Karns, licking his lip. "The best I ever."

"There's twelve cases of it in the warehouse," said Dement, with a
wink. "Now, if you were the smuggling sort, there would be a nice
profit for you. But, of course...."

"Hell," exploded Hank Karns, "running comet-dew's no sin. Wisht I had a
decimo for every gallon I've hauled. Once in a coon's age I get stuck
with a little fine, but shucks--the customer'll allus pay that for
you."

There followed more dickering, but the upshot of it was that Hank Karns
signed up for everything that had been offered him.

"Bon voyage," said Mr. Dement. "If you ever pass this way again, drop
in and visit."

"Sure will," said Hank Karns, looking his man in the eye. He was
interested in his host's forehead. About an inch from the right temple
there was a slight depression--the ineradicable scar of an old skull
injury.
