
Mercury was still a big disk behind when the _Swapper_ straightened out
on her earthward trajectory.

"Step alive there, Billy, we got lots to do."

All the blandness, all the gullibility and child-like faith were gone
from Hank Karns' face now. He looked much more like work-ridden gnome
than an emaciated Santa Claus. For they had unpacked every case and
strewn its contents on the deck, looking for contraband of a more
serious nature than the harmless comet-dew. But no case contained
anything except what the invoice declared. Hank left the job of
repacking to the boy and went about a minute search of the ship itself.

In that he was not a moment too soon. Behind the control board--hidden
under the vine-like mass of electric leads--were two thermobombs. Their
detonating coils were already hot. The control board was divided into
three panels, each controlling an opposite pair of the six tubes which
were arranged hexagonally about the stern. Two of the panels were about
to be ruined by fire.

Hank Karns' first impulse was to snatch the bombs loose and let them
burn out harmlessly on the deck, but suddenly he checked it. Instead he
withdrew his hand and stuck his blistered fingers in his mouth. Then he
shouted a warning to Billy Hatch.

"Hey! Stand by for a blast. Bring an extinguisher, quick!"

The boy ran up, but nothing happened for several minutes. Then the two
boards flashed fire. They put the fire out, but the damage was done.
The _Swapper_ was not nearly up to acceleration. She could never get to
Earth at that velocity. She would have to limp into Venus on her two
remaining tubes and have yard electricians renew her wiring.

"Pretty neat," said Hank Karns, admiringly, contemplating his ruined
controls.

"I did the best I could, Cap'n," said Billy, modestly, thinking the
compliment was meant for him.

"You did all right, son," said the skipper. "Supposing you turn in now.
I'll do what's left."

Hank Karns did not at once change course for Venus. He was still
unsatisfied that he knew all he should know about his ship and its
seemingly innocuous cargo. It was too obvious to miss that Dement had
ordered the bombs planted to ensure the _Swapper's_ going into Venus.
It was an easy guess that the suggestion to take liquor on board was a
device to ensure the ship's arrest and the confiscation that was sure
to follow, Venusian courts being what they were. But to Hank Karns'
suspicious mind there was much more to it than that. In the first
place, he could have obviated both. He could have snatched the bombs
before they exploded, and he could yet jettison the liquor. Moreover,
if the mere elimination of all visitors to Mercury was what they
were after, those bombs could just as well have been of feroxite and
designed to destroy the ship entirely, as was done in the case of the
openly hostile Merrill and Carter. No, the master plot required the
_Swapper_ to go into Venus and be done away with there. Why? He thought
that over.

Suddenly he arose and unlocked his little safe. From its lead container
he withdrew a small pellet of radium and set up his fluoroscope.
Then he dragged out one of the trockelbeck hides. He searched it
systematically from horn to stubby tail, from the scaly back to the
claws of the feet. Then he put his fluoroscope away. Grinning into his
beard, he went aft and got a pair of pliers, a hammer and a cold chisel.

One of the horns came away as he screwed it off. He knew already
from its fluorescence that it was hollowed out and filled with some
substance, but he wanted to make sure. He shook the pale green powder
inside out into his palm and sniffed it. Yes, that was it. There was
the unmistakable odor of crushed cherries and the sickish sweetness
of the hashish of the skies--trilibaine! Ah, now he was getting
somewhere. And as he split a few back scales at random he found that
each had a few grams of the insidious drug within it. One such hide
would supply a retail peddler for many months, each scale a separate
delivery.

He delayed no longer. He shifted his course toward Venus and at the
same time sat down to his radio key. He sent:

"URGENT: Venusberg Sky Yard. Attention assistant dockmaster. Four
tubes disabled account switchboard fire. Please reserve for me berth
twenty-three. Litigation in prospect. Can you recommend lawyer?
(signed) Hank Karns, captain, TS Swapper."

"Well," he said to himself as he carefully swept up the tell-tale green
dust from the deck and added it to the bundle of broken scales and
neatly bored and threaded horns preparatory to firing it all through
the garbage tube into his wake, "I've shot my wad. Now let's see how
smart Mr. Brown turns out to be."
