
He learned very soon that the thermobombs were but an added precaution.
He had not been waiting more than a couple hours when his loudspeaker
began to buzz. He glanced at it in surprise, as he was still a long way
from Venus. The message began coming through, harsh and peremptory,
"Lay to, _Swapper_, to receive a boarding party. Lay to, or take the
consequences. Sky-guard calling. Lay to!"

Hank Karns cut his rockets and went to the airlock to await the arrival
of the cruiser. It was not long in coming.

Two smartly uniformed young officers sprang in.

"Let's see your manifest," ordered one, curtly, while the other headed
for the hold. In a moment the second came back with two flasks of the
pale violet comet-dew.

"The old boy is lousy with the stuff," he reported to the other. "Cases
and cases of it."

"Yes," said the first, "and not a damn word about it in the manifest.
This makes the second one of these old coots we've hauled up this
month--what do you say, shall we call this one conspiracy?"

"Why not?" countered the other.

Karns said nothing beyond the usual blustering protests that would be
expected of him. Then he lapsed into silence as the two took over
after ordering their own vessel to proceed.

They did not go to the commercial sky-yard, but to the official one.
Other officers met them, and Hank Karns was led straight away to jail.
He protested every step of the way, demanding to be taken before the
Terrestrial resident commissioner, or to be booked in the usual way.
Both those demands were refused, whereupon he asked for a lawyer.

"Don't kid yourself, old man," said one of his guards. "You're in Venus
now. Here you are."

[Illustration: Ray-gun levelled, the guard shoved Hank stumblingly
forward. He staggered and nearly fell, striking his head against the
barred window. Outside he could see the form of a spaceship. But it was
not the _Swapper_. The guard laughed and swaggered out.]

There he was. There was no question about that. The barred door slammed
behind his departing escort with an air of utter finality.

"Hi-ya, pop!" screamed some hoodlum down the corridor. "Whatcha in for?"

After that nothing happened. Hank Karns looked about him at his cramped
cell and settled down to make the best of it. It would be tiresome,
locked up alone this way, but in a day or so perhaps the mysterious Mr.
Brown would put in his appearance.

The next day came, but no Mr. Brown. However, early in the morning
another visitor came in his place. Karns heard footsteps approaching
and the jangle of keys. His door was flung open and a tall stranger
stepped in. The man was quite old and clad in the blue uniform, faded
and patched, of a space skipper. He was obviously a lone trader, but
if he was, he was the only one in the universe that Hank Karns did not
know. For this man, with his beetling gray eyebrows and hard steely
eyes beneath, he had never laid eyes on before.

"Two minutes, no more," warned the guard, and stood back in the
corridor where he could both see and hear.

"Howdy Hank," said the newcomer. "Danged if it ain't gitting so that
Tom Bagley spends half his time bailing you out or paying fines. Why,
I'd hardly landed here but what I heard you'd been slung into the
calaboose again, and I says to myself, says I...."

"Yeah, Tom, I know," said Hank Karns, penitently, trying not to look
at the eavesdropping guard. Inwardly he was seething with doubt and
curiosity. Could it be that this was some minion of the collector
trying to trick him, or was he acting for Mr. Brown? He remembered
telling the fellow in the wickerware place that what he really needed
was a man of his own type. Maybe they had found one. At any rate, he
chose to pretend he knew him.

"Anyhow," went on the stranger, "I looked up a feller named Brown that
I know here and asked him what to do. He said things looked pretty
black and his advice was to plead guilty and say nothing. Might get
off with a fine or something. And that he had a little money of yours.
He got me this pass, but said he couldn't work it twice. Now tell me,
Hank, what do you want me to do? I gotta get out of here for Mercury in
a day or so."

Hank Karns looked at the man steadily for a moment. He was on the
spot. The man was evidently from Brown, but he knew neither of them
personally. But worse, the guard was listening to every word, and there
were doubtless dictaphones as well. But the two minutes were running
out and there would not be a second visit.

"I'll tell you, Tom, there isn't but one thing you can do. I'll have
to take my medicine, I guess, but I hate like everything to lose them
trocklebeck hides and horns. The critters is dying off--poisoned by
pagras. Them danged snakes are all over Mercury. You might not have
money enough to buy 'em in, but sorta keep track of 'em, won't you?
They're not worth much now, but they'll be _mighty_ valuable some day.
There's a man here from Io that'll pay a good price for 'em, ef you can
find him."

"Time's up," snapped the guard, coming forward.

"All right, you old scalawag," said the phony trader captain, jovially,
"I'll do my best. But watch your step with that jedge. He's tough."

"I know," said Hank Karns, despondently, and settled his face in his
hands.

The door slammed and the footsteps withdrew, ringing emptily down the
metal passage.

Dreary day followed dreary day. Time after time Karns heard footsteps
ringing in the corridor, and as often he heard the rattle of keys as
some door was opened and another unfortunate was ordered out to meet
his doom--the sentence that was to change his state from slow dry rot
to the swift wet rot of the Swamp. But it was never Karns' door.

Then at last came the day when guards took him to the identical court
where Wilkerson had been tried. The evidence was brief and to the
point. He was apprehended trying to sneak into Venus when his clearance
papers called for Terra as his destination. He had on board eight cases
of illicit liquor. He had no acceptable explanation. Guilty. Two years
in the Swamp and the loss of his ship was the sentence. Then they took
him back to his cell to await the next caravan to the penal camps.

The second stretch of waiting was harder to take than the first, for
he had placed the enigmatic collector now in his memory. The man was
Von Kleber, thought to have died many years ago in the uranium mines
of Sans Espérance. Karns knew him to be a convict from the fact that
he had grafted new skin on his face and head so that the burns and
baldness caused by radioactivity would not show. But that he was the
notorious Von Kleber himself had not occurred to him. And with that
recognition came the other. Raoul Dement was the man known as Frenchy
the Hop, vice-president of the Von Kleber ring. It was he who had
operated the narcotic racket while the big boss turned his attention to
such other lines as piracy, white-slaving and smuggling in general. If
such men could flourish unchecked in the well-policed Jovian satellites
for more than a decade, it was hopeless to expect to dislodge them from
their place on corrupt and autonomous Venus.

And so time dragged on and Hank Karns sat, awaiting the day when he
would be taken away to the Swamp. He wondered apathetically whether he
would be sent to the same camp where Wilkerson and Hildreth were. But
at last there came a day when footsteps rang again in the corridors and
he heard doors being opened and men taken away. Finally men stopped
before his own cell and called him forth. Between two soldiers they
marched him away.

To his surprise they took him first to the street, where three sedan
chairs were waiting. The guards very politely indicated that Karns was
to get in the middle one and they took the others. Hank clambered in
and they set off. Shortly they drew up before the courthouse.

He was met inside by a tall, slender man of nearly his own age who wore
the uniform of Chief Inspector of the Interplanetary F.B.I.

"How are you, Captain?" he said cheerily. "Sorry you had such a long
stay in jail, but we'll try to make that up to you. Come in here and
let me show you something?"

Hank Karns looked at the inspector in amazement. He was Frank Haynes,
the man who had broken the Von Kleber case years before. There had been
a time when they worked closely together on the information that Karns
furnished when he was released from Sans Espérance. He said nothing in
reply, though, as Haynes was leading the way into the courtroom. In the
dock were two baldheaded prisoners--Von Kleber, erstwhile Collector
of the Port, and Mr. Dement, manager of the Mercurian drug works. The
judge was a new one--a judge who looked like a judge should look.

"There they are, thanks to you," said Haynes, pointing. "Two as clever
criminals as ever plagued the system. We've been a long time catching
them. But their career is over now.

"Our local operative, known as Brown to you, has been trying for months
to locate the source of the trilobaine flood but without avail. The
Venusian authorities blocked him at every turn but there was nothing
we could do about that unless we could hang a Federal offense on
them. It was you who did that for us. I am very glad I gave you that
identification ring after our cleanup on Callisto and the list of
the secret addresses of our agents. I felt then that you were a man
of discretion and would not abuse its privileges and today I most
certainly am more than justified. When I interviewed you in your
cell...."

"You!"

Inspector Haynes grinned at Hank's surprise.

"Pretty effective disguise, eh? Well, as I was about to say--you gave
me all the tips that were needed. First of all, your mention of the
scourge of pagras told me it was trilobaine you had aboard, for that is
a distillation of pagra venom. That gave us jurisdiction. I attended
the secret auction and tried to bid. Everything in the ship went for a
song to Von Kleber's pals, but when I went to bid on the trocklebeck
hides I ran into stiff opposition. They were not to be had at any
price. So I stopped bidding.

"Our operatives trailed those hides through five sets of owners before
we came to the Collector himself. Early this morning we made our raid
and took in all their supplies of drugs and twenty-five of their
peddlers. Previously we had raided Mercury and those men came in about
an hour ago. They had quite a thriving little business, and why we
didn't think of their method of smuggling in the trilobaine before this
I'll never know. We knew, of course, that it must be coming in the
ships that they confiscated. That much we were sure of. But we couldn't
prove a damn thing until we knew _how_. Thanks to you, the ring is
busted now, and we can do something for those poor devils who were
innocently duped into being carriers of the drug. Runners have already
been sent to the Swamp to bring back your friends. And there you are.
You'll find your old _Swapper_ in the Yard, completely overhauled and
stocked to the gunwales with grade A trade goods."

Hank Karns, trader, tugged at his grizzled beard and looked rather
sheepishly at the floor.

"Dag it all," he said "that's fine enough. But gosh, I sure hated to
make a damfool of myself in front of everybody thataway."

Inspector Haynes broke into laughter and crossed over and slapped him
on the back.

"You old liar. You loved it!"



