
"There," said old Haskel van Manderpootz, shutting the book, "is my
classical authority in this experiment. This story, overlaid as it is
with mediaeval myth and legend, proves that Roger Bacon himself attempted
the experiment--and failed." He shook a long finger at me. "Yet do not
get the impression, Dixon, that Friar Bacon was not a great man. He
was--extremely great, in fact; he lighted the torch that his namesake
Francis Bacon took up four centuries later, and that now van Manderpootz
rekindles."

I stared in silence.

"Indeed," resumed the Professor, "Roger Bacon might almost be called a
thirteenth century van Manderpootz, or van Manderpootz a twenty-first
century Roger Bacon. His _Opus Majus_, _Opus Minus_, and _Opus
Tertium_--"

"What," I interrupted impatiently, "has all this to do with--that?" I
indicated the clumsy metal robot standing in the corner of the
laboratory.

"Don't interrupt!" snapped van Manderpootz. "I'll--"

At this point I fell out of my chair. The mass of metal had ejaculated
something like "_A-a-gh-rasp_" and had lunged a single pace toward the
window, arms upraised. "What the devil!" I sputtered as the thing
dropped its arms and returned stolidly to its place.

"A car must have passed in the alley," said van Manderpootz
indifferently. "Now as I was saying, Roger Bacon--"

I ceased to listen. When van Manderpootz is determined to finish a
statement, interruptions are worse than futile. As an ex-student of his,
I know. So I permitted my thoughts to drift to certain personal problems
of my own, particularly Tips Alva, who was the most pressing problem of
the moment. Yes, I mean Tips Alva the 'vision dancer, the little blonde
imp who entertains on the Yerba Mate hour for that Brazilian company.
Chorus girls, dancers, and television stars are a weakness of mine;
maybe it indicates that there's a latent artistic soul in me. Maybe.

I'm Dixon Wells, you know, scion of the N. J. Wells Corporation,
Engineers Extraordinary. I'm supposed to be an engineer myself; I say
supposed, because in the seven years since my graduation, my father
hasn't given me much opportunity to prove it. He has a strong sense of
value of time, and I'm cursed with the unenviable quality of being late
to anything and for everything. He even asserts that the occasional
designs I submit are late Jacobean, but that isn't fair. They're
Post-Romanesque.

Old N. J. also objects to my penchant for ladies of the stage and
'vision screen, and periodically threatens to cut my allowance, though
that's supposed to be a salary. It's inconvenient to be so dependent,
and sometimes I regret that unfortunate market crash of 2009 that wiped
out my own money, although it did keep me from marrying Whimsy White,
and van Manderpootz, through his subjunctivisor, succeeded in proving
that that would have been a catastrophe. But it turned out nearly as
much of a disaster anyway, as far as my feelings were concerned. It took
me months to forget Joanna Caldwell and her silvery eyes. Just another
instance when I was a little late.

Van Manderpootz himself is my old Physics Professor, head of the
Department of Newer Physics at N. Y. U., and a genius, but a bit
eccentric. Judge for yourself.

"And that's the thesis," he said suddenly, interrupting my thoughts.

"Eh? Oh, of course. But what's that grinning robot got to do with it?"

He purpled. "I've just told you!" he roared. "Idiot! Imbecile! To dream
while van Manderpootz talks! Get out! Get out!"

I got. It was late anyway, so late that I overslept more than usual in
the morning, and suffered more than the usual lecture on promptness from
my father at the office.
