
Van Manderpootz had forgotten his anger by the next time I dropped in
for an evening. The robot still stood in the corner near the window,
and I lost no time asking its purpose.

"It's just a toy I had some of the students construct," he explained.
"There's a screen of photoelectric cells behind the right eye, so
connected that when a certain pattern is thrown on them, it activates
the mechanism. The thing's plugged into the light-circuit, but it really
ought to run on gasoline."

"Why?"

"Well, the pattern it's set for is the shape of an automobile. See
here." He picked up a card from his desk, and cut in the outlines of a
streamlined car like those of that year. "Since only one eye is used,"
he continued, "The thing can't tell the difference between a full-sized
vehicle at a distance and this small outline nearby. It has no sense of
perspective."

He held the bit of cardboard before the eye of the mechanism. Instantly
came its roar of "_A-a-gh-rasp!_" and it leaped forward a single pace,
arms upraised. Van Manderpootz withdrew the card, and again the thing
relapsed stolidly into its place.

"What the devil!" I exclaimed. "What's it for?"

"Does van Manderpootz ever do work without reason back of it? I use it
as a demonstration in my seminar."

"To demonstrate what?"

"The power of reason," said van Manderpootz solemnly.

"How? And why ought it to work on gasoline instead of electric power?"

"One question at a time, Dixon. You have missed the grandeur of van
Manderpootz's concept. See here, this creature, imperfect as it is,
represents the predatory machine. It is the mechanical parallel of the
tiger, lurking in its jungle to leap on living prey. _This_ monster's
jungle is the city; its prey is the unwary machine that follows the
trails called streets. Understand?"

"No."

"Well, picture this automaton, not as it is, but as van Manderpootz
could make it if he wished. It lurks gigantic in the shadows of
buildings; it creeps stealthily through dark alleys; it skulks on
deserted streets, with its gasoline engine purring quietly. Then--an
unsuspecting automobile flashes its image on the screen behind its
eyes. It leaps. It seizes its prey, swinging it in steel arms to its
steel jaws. Through the metal throat of its victim crash steel teeth;
the blood of its prey--the gasoline, that is--is drained into its
stomach, or its gas-tank. With renewed strength it flings away the husk
and prowls on to seek other prey. It is the machine-carnivore, the tiger
of mechanics."

I suppose I stared dumbly. It occurred to me suddenly that the brain of
the great van Manderpootz was cracking. "What the--?" I gasped.

"That," he said blandly, "is but a concept. I have many another use for
the toy. I can prove anything with it, anything I wish."

"You can? Then prove something."

"Name your proposition, Dixon."

I hesitated, nonplussed.

"Come!" he said impatiently. "Look here; I will prove that anarchy is
the ideal government, or that Heaven and Hell are the same place, or
that--"

"Prove that!" I said. "About Heaven and Hell."

"Easily. First we will endow my robot with intelligence. I add a
mechanical memory by means of the old Cushman delayed valve; I add a
mathematical sense with any of the calculating machines; I give it a
voice and a vocabulary with the magnetic-impulse wire phonograph. Now
the point I make is this: Granted an intelligent machine, does it not
follow that every other machine constructed like it must have the
identical qualities? Would not each robot given the same insides have
exactly the same character?"

"No!" I snapped. "Human beings can't make two machines exactly alike.
There'd be tiny differences; one would react quicker than others, or one
would prefer Fox Airsplitters as prey, while another reacted most
vigorously to Carnecars. In other words, they'd have--_individuality_!"
I grinned in triumph.

"My point exactly," observed van Manderpootz. "You admit, then, that
this individuality is the result of imperfect workmanship. If our means
of manufacture were perfect, all robots would be identical, and this
individuality would not exist. Is that true?"

"I--suppose so."

"Then I argue that our own individuality is due to our falling short of
perfection. All of us--even van Manderpootz--are individuals only
because we are not perfect. Were we perfect, each of us would be exactly
like everyone else. True?"

"Uh--yes."

"But Heaven, by definition, is a place where all is perfect. Therefore,
in Heaven everybody is exactly like everybody else, and _therefore_,
everybody is thoroughly and completely bored! There is no torture like
boredom, Dixon, and--Well, have I proved my point?"

I was floored. "But--about anarchy, then?" I stammered.

"Simple. Very simple for van Manderpootz. See here; with a perfect
nation--that is, one whose individuals are all exactly alike, which I
have just proved to constitute perfection--with a perfect nation, I
repeat, laws and government are utterly superfluous. If everybody reacts
to stimuli in the same way, laws are quite useless, obviously. If, for
instance, a certain event occurred that might lead to a declaration of
war, why, everybody in such a nation would vote for war at the same
instant. Therefore government is unnecessary, and therefore anarchy is
the ideal government, since it is the proper government for a perfect
race." He paused. "I shall now prove that anarchy is _not_ the ideal
government--"

"Never mind!" I begged. "Who am I to argue with van Manderpootz? But is
_that_ the whole purpose of this dizzy robot? Just a basis for logic?"
The mechanism replied with its usual rasp as it leaped toward some
vagrant car beyond the window.

"Isn't that enough?" growled van Manderpootz. "However,"--his voice
dropped--"I have even a greater destiny in mind. My boy, van Manderpootz
has solved the riddle of the universe!" He paused impressively. "Well,
why don't you say something?"

"Uh!" I gasped. "It's--uh--marvelous!"

"Not for van Manderpootz," he said modestly.

"But--what is it?"

"Eh--Oh!" He frowned. "Well, I'll tell you, Dixon. You won't
understand, but I'll tell you." He coughed. "As far back as the early
twentieth century," he resumed, "Einstein proved that energy is
particular. Matter is also particular, and now van Manderpootz adds that
space and time are discrete!" He glared at me.

"Energy and matter are particular," I murmured, "and space and time are
discrete! How very moral of them!"

"Imbecile!" he blazed. "To pun on the words of van Manderpootz! You know
very well that I mean particular and discrete in the physical sense.
Matter is composed of particles, therefore it is particular. The
particles of matter are called electrons, protons, and neutrons, and
those of energy, quanta. I now add two others, the particles of space I
call spations, those of time, chronons."

"And what in the devil," I asked, "are particles of space and time?"

"Just what I said!" snapped van Manderpootz. "Exactly as the particles
of matter are the smallest pieces of matter that can exist, just as
there is no such thing as a half of an electron, or for that matter,
half a quantum, so the chronon is the smallest possible fragment of
time, and the spation the smallest possible bit of space. Neither time
nor space is continuous; each is composed of these infinitely tiny
fragments."

"Well, how long is a chronon in time? How big is a spation in space?"

"Van Manderpootz has even measured that. A chronon is the length of time
it takes one quantum of energy to push one electron from one electronic
orbit to the next. There can obviously be no shorter interval of time,
since an electron is the smallest unit of matter and the quantum the
smallest unit of energy. And a spation is the exact volume of a proton.
Since nothing smaller exists, that is obviously the smallest unit of
space."

"Well, look here," I argued. "Then what's in between these particles of
space and time? If time moves, as you say, in jerks of one chronon each,
what's between the jerks?"

"Ah!" said the great van Manderpootz. "Now we come to the heart of the
matter. In between the particles of space and time, must obviously be
something that is neither space, time, matter, nor energy. A hundred
years ago Shapley anticipated van Manderpootz in a vague way when he
announced his cosmo-plasma, the great underlying matrix in which time
and space and the universe are embedded. Now van Manderpootz announces
the ultimate unit, the universal particle, the focus in which matter,
energy, time, and space meet, the unit from which electrons, protons,
neutrons, quanta, spations, and chronons are all constructed. The riddle
of the universe is solved by what I have chosen to name the cosmon." His
blue eyes bored into me.

"Magnificent!" I said feebly, knowing that some such word was expected.
"But what good is it?"

"What good is it?" he roared. "It provides--or will provide, once I work
out a few details--the means of turning energy into time, or space into
matter, or time into space, or--" He sputtered into silence. "Fool!" he
muttered. "To think that you studied under the tutelage of van
Manderpootz. I blush; I actually blush!"

One couldn't have told it if he were blushing. His face was always
rubicund enough. "Colossal!" I said hastily. "What a mind!"

That mollified him. "But that's not all," he proceeded. "Van Manderpootz
never stops short of perfection. I now announce the unit particle of
thought--the psychon!"

This was a little too much. I simply stared.

"Well may you be dumbfounded," said van Manderpootz. "I presume you are
aware, by hearsay at least, of the existence of thought. The psychon,
the unit of thought, is one electron plus one proton, which are bound so
as to form one neutron, embedded in one cosmon, occupying a volume of
one spation, driven by one quantum for a period of one chronon. Very
obvious; very simple."

"Oh, very!" I echoed. "Even I can see that that equals one psychon."

He beamed. "Excellent! Excellent!"

"And what," I asked, "will you do with the psychons?"

"Ah," he rumbled. "Now we go even _past_ the heart of the matter, and
return to Isaak here." He jammed a thumb toward the robot. "Here I will
create Roger Bacon's mechanical head. In the skull of this clumsy
creature will rest such intelligence as not even van Manderpootz--I
should say, as _only_ van Manderpootz--can conceive. It remains merely
to construct my idealizator."

"Your idealizator?"

"Of course. Have I not just proven that thoughts are as real as matter,
energy, time, or space? Have I not just demonstrated that one can be
transformed, through the cosmon, into any other? My idealizator is the
means of transforming psychons to quanta, just as, for instance, a
Crookes tube or X-ray tube transforms matter to electrons. I will make
your thoughts visible! And not your thoughts as they are in that numb
brain of yours, but in _ideal_ form. Do you see? The psychons of your
mind are the same as those from any other mind, just as all electrons
are identical, whether from gold or iron. Yes! Your psychons"--his voice
quavered--"are identical with those from the mind of--van Manderpootz!"
He paused, shaken.

"Actually?" I gasped.

"Actually. Fewer in number, of course, but identical. Therefore, my
idealizator shows your thought released from the impress of your
personality. It shows it--ideal!"

Well, I was late to the office again.
