
A week later I thought of van Manderpootz. Tips was on tour somewhere,
and I didn't dare take anyone else out because I'd tried it once before
and she'd heard about it. So, with nothing to do, I finally dropped
around to the professor's quarter, found him missing, and eventually
located him in his laboratory at the Physics Building. He was puttering
around the table that had once held that damned subjunctivisor of his,
but now it supported an indescribable mess of tubes and tangled wires,
and as its most striking feature, a circular plane mirror etched with a
grating of delicately scratched lines.

"Good evening, Dixon," he rumbled.

I echoed his greeting. "What's that?" I asked.

"My idealizator. A rough model, much too clumsy to fit into Isaak's
iron skull. I'm just finishing it to try it out." He turned glittering
blue eyes on me. "How fortunate that you're here. It will save the world
a terrible risk."

"A risk?"

"Yes. It is obvious that too long an exposure to the device will extract
too many psychons, and leave the subject's mind in a sort of moronic
condition. I was about to accept the risk, but I see now that it would
be woefully unfair to the world to endanger the mind of van Manderpootz.
But you are at hand, and will do very well."

"Oh, no I won't!"

"Come, come!" he said, frowning. "The danger is negligible. In fact, I
doubt whether the device will be able to extract _any_ psychons from
_your_ mind. At any rate, you will be perfectly safe for a period of at
least half an hour. I, with a vastly more productive mind, could
doubtless stand the strain indefinitely, but my responsibility to the
world is too great to chance it until I have tested the machine on
someone else. You should be proud of the honor."

"Well, I'm not!" But my protest was feeble, and after all, despite his
overbearing mannerisms, I knew van Manderpootz liked me, and I was
positive he would not have exposed me to any real danger. In the end I
found myself seated before the table facing the etched mirror.

"Put your face against the barrel," said van Manderpootz, indicating a
stove-pipe-like tube. "That's merely to cut off extraneous sights, so
that you can see only the mirror. Go ahead, I tell you! It's no more
than the barrel of a telescope or microscope."

I complied. "Now what?" I asked.

"What do you see?"

"My own face in the mirror."

"Of course. Now I start the reflector rotating." There was a faint whir,
and the mirror was spinning smoothly, still with only a slightly blurred
image of myself. "Listen, now," continued van Manderpootz. "Here is what
you are to do. You will think of a generic noun. 'House,' for instance.
If you think of house, you will see, not an individual house, but your
ideal house, the house of all your dreams and desires. If you think of
a horse, you will see what your mind conceives as the perfect horse,
such a horse as dream and longing create. Do you understand? Have you
chosen a topic?"

"Yes." After all, I was only twenty-eight; the noun I had chosen
was--girl.

"Good," said the professor. "I turn on the current."

There was a blue radiance behind the mirror. My own face still stared
back at me from the spinning surface, but something was forming behind
it, building up, growing. I blinked; when I focused my eyes again, it
was--_she_ was--there.

Lord! I can't begin to describe her. I don't even know if I saw her
clearly the first time. It was like looking into another world and
seeing the embodiment of all longings, dreams, aspirations, and ideals.
It was so poignant a sensation that it crossed the borderline into pain.
It was--well, exquisite torture or agonized delight. It was at once
unbearable and irresistible.

But I gazed. I had to. There was a haunting familiarity about the
impossibly beautiful features. I had seen the face--somewhere--sometime.
In dreams? No; I realized suddenly what was the source of that
familiarity. This was no living woman, but a synthesis. Her nose was the
tiny, impudent one of Whimsy White at her loveliest moment; her lips
were the perfect bow of Tips Alva; her silvery eyes and dusky velvet
hair were those of Joan Caldwell. But the aggregate, the sum total, the
face in the mirror--that was none of these; it was a face impossibly,
incredibly, outrageously beautiful.

Only her face and throat were visible, and the features were cool,
expressionless, and still as a carving. I wandered suddenly if she could
smile, and with the thought, she did. If she had been beautiful before,
now her beauty flamed to such a pitch that it was--well, insolent; it
was an affront to be so lovely; it was insulting. I felt a wild surge of
anger that the image before me should flaunt such beauty, and yet
be--_non-existent_! It was deception, cheating, fraud, a promise that
could never be fulfilled.

Anger died in the depths of that fascination. I wondered what the rest
of her was like, and instantly she moved gracefully back until her full
figure was visible. I must be a prude at heart, for she wasn't wearing
the usual cuirass-and-shorts of that year, but an iridescent
four-paneled costume that all but concealed her dainty knees. But her
form was slim and erect as a column of cigarette smoke in still air, and
I knew that she could dance like a fragment of mist on water. And with
that thought she did move, dropping in a low curtsy, and looking up with
the faintest possible flush crimsoning the curve of her throat. Yes, I
must be a prude at heart; despite Tips Alva and Whimsy White and the
rest, my ideal was modest.

It was unbelievable that the mirror was simply giving back my thoughts.
She seemed as real as myself, and--after all--I guess she was. As real
as myself, no more, no less, because she was part of my own mind. And at
this point I realized that van Manderpootz was shaking me and bellowing,
"Your time's up. Come out of it! Your half-hour's up!"

He must have switched off the current. The image faded, and I took my
face from the tube, dropping it on my arms.

"O-o-o-o-o-oh!" I groaned.

"How do you feel?" he snapped.

"Feel? All right--physically." I looked up.

Concern flickered in his blue eyes. "What's the cube root of 4913?" he
crackled sharply.

I've always been quick at figures. "It's--uh--17," I returned dully.
"Why the devil--?"

"You're all right mentally," he announced. "Now--why were you sitting
there like a dummy for half an hour? My idealizator must have worked, as
is only natural for a van Manderpootz creation, but what were you
thinking of?"

"I thought--I thought of 'girl'," I groaned.

He snorted. "Hah! You would, you idiot! 'House' or 'horse' wasn't good
enough; you had to pick something with emotional connotations. Well, you
can start right in forgetting her, because she doesn't exist."

I couldn't give up hope, as easily as that. "But can't you--can't
you--?" I didn't even know what I meant to ask.

"Van Manderpootz," he announced, "is a mathematician, not a magician. Do
you expect me to materialize an ideal for you?" When I had no reply but
a groan, he continued. "Now I think it safe enough to try the device
myself. I shall take--let's see--the thought 'man.' I shall see what the
superman looks like, since the ideal of van Manderpootz can be nothing
less than superman." He seated himself. "Turn that switch," he said.
"Now!"

I did. The tubes glowed into low blue light. I watched dully,
disinterestedly; nothing held any attraction for me after that image of
the ideal.

"Huh!" said van Manderpootz suddenly. "Turn it on, I say! I see nothing
but my own reflection."

I stared, then burst into a hollow laugh. The mirror was spinning; the
banks of tubes were glowing; the device was operating.

Van Manderpootz raised his face, a little redder than usual. I laughed
half hysterically. "After all," he said huffily, "one might have a lower
ideal of man than van Manderpootz. I see nothing nearly so humorous as
your situation."

The laughter died. I went miserably home, spent half the remainder of
the night in morose contemplation, smoked nearly two packs of
cigarettes, and didn't get to the office at all the next day.
