
Tips Alva got back to town for a week-end broadcast, but I didn't even
bother to see her, just phoned her and told her I was sick. I guess my
face lent credibility to the story, for she was duly sympathetic, and
her face in the phone screen was quite anxious. Even at that, I couldn't
keep my eyes away from her lips because, except for a bit too lustrous
make-up, they were the lips of the ideal. But they weren't enough; they
just weren't enough.

Old N. J. began to worry again. I couldn't sleep late of mornings any
more, and after missing that one day, I kept getting down earlier and
earlier until one morning I was only ten minutes late. He called me in
at once.

"Look here, Dixon," he said. "Have you been to a doctor recently?"

"I'm not sick," I said listlessly.

"Then for Heaven's sake, marry the girl! I don't care what chorus she
kicks in, marry her and act like a human being again."

"I--can't."

"Oh. She's already married, eh?"

Well, I couldn't tell him she didn't exist. I couldn't say I was in love
with a vision, a dream, an ideal. He thought I was a little crazy,
anyway, so I just muttered "Yeah," and didn't argue when he said
gruffly: "Then you'll get over it. Take a vacation. Take _two_
vacations. You might as well for all the good you are around here."

I didn't leave New York; I lacked the energy. I just mooned around the
city for a while, avoiding my friends, and dreaming of the impossible
beauty of the face in the mirror. And by and by the longing to see that
vision of perfection once more began to become overpowering. I don't
suppose anyone except me can understand the lure of that memory; the
face, you see, had been my ideal, my concept of perfection. One sees
beautiful women here and there in the world; one falls in love, but
always, no matter how great their beauty or how deep one's love, they
fall short in some degree of the secret vision of the ideal. But not the
mirrored face; she was my ideal, and therefore, whatever imperfections
she might have had in the minds of others, in my eyes she had none.
None, that is, save the terrible one of being only an ideal, and
therefore unattainable--but that is a fault inherent in all perfection.

It was a matter of days before I yielded. Common sense told me it was
futile, even foolhardy, to gaze again on the vision of perfect
desirability. I fought against the hunger, but I fought hopelessly, and
was not at all surprised to find myself one evening rapping on van
Manderpootz's door in the University Club. He wasn't there; I'd been
hoping he wouldn't be, since it gave me an excuse to seek him in his
laboratory in the Physics Building, to which I would have dragged him
anyway.

There I found him, writing some sort of notations on the table that held
the idealizator. "Hello, Dixon," he said. "Did it ever occur to you that
the ideal university cannot exist? Naturally not since it must be
composed of perfect students and perfect educators, in which case the
former could have nothing to learn and the latter, therefore, nothing
to teach."

What interest had I in the perfect university and its inability to
exist? My whole being was desolate over the non-existence of another
ideal. "Professor," I said tensely, "may I use that--that thing of yours
again? I want to--uh--see something."

My voice must have disclosed the situation, for van Manderpootz looked
up sharply. "So!" he snapped. "So you disregarded my advice! Forget her,
I said. Forget her because she doesn't exist."

"But--I can't! Once more, Professor--only once more!"

He shrugged, but his blue, metallic eyes were a little softer than
usual. After all, for some inconceivable reason, he likes me. "Well,
Dixon," he said, "you're of age and supposed to be of mature
intelligence. I tell you that this is a very stupid request, and van
Manderpootz always knows what he's talking about. If you want to stupefy
yourself with the opium of impossible dreams, go ahead. This is the last
chance you'll have, for tomorrow the idealizator of van Manderpootz goes
into the Bacon head of Isaak there. I shall shift the oscillators so
that the psychons, instead of becoming light quanta, emerge as an
electron flow--a current which will actuate Isaak's vocal apparatus and
come out as speech." He paused musingly. "Van Manderpootz will hear the
voice of the ideal. Of course Isaak can return only what psychons he
receives from the brain of the operator, but just as the image in the
mirror, the thoughts will have lost their human impress, and the words
will be those of an ideal." He perceived that I wasn't listening, I
suppose. "Go ahead, imbecile!" he grunted.

I did. The glory that I hungered after flamed slowly into being,
incredible in loveliness, and somehow, unbelievably, even more beautiful
than on that other occasion. I know why now; long afterwards, van
Manderpootz explained that the very fact that I had seen an ideal once
before had altered my ideal, raised it to a higher level. With that face
among my memories, my concept of perfection was different than it had
been.

So I gazed and hungered. Readily and instantly the being in the mirror
responded to my thoughts with smile and movement. When I thought of
love, her eyes blazed with such tenderness that it seemed as if--I--I,
Dixon Wells--were part of those pairs who had made the great romances of
the world, Heloise and Abelard, Tristram and Isolde, Aucassin and
Nicolette. It was like the thrust of a dagger to feel van Manderpootz
shaking me, to hear his gruff voice calling, "Out of it! Out of it!
Time's up."

I groaned and dropped my face on my hands. The Professor had been right,
of course; this insane repetition had only intensified an unfulfillable
longing, and had made a bad mess ten times as bad. Then I heard him
muttering behind me. "Strange!" he murmured. "In fact, fantastic.
Oedipus--oedipus of the magazine covers and billboards."

I looked dully around. He was standing behind me, squinting, apparently,
into the spinning mirror beyond the end of the black tube. "Huh?" I
grunted wearily.

"That face," he said. "Very queer. You must have seen her features on a
hundred magazines, on a thousand billboards, on countless 'vision
broadcasts. The oedipus complex in a curious form."

"Eh? Could _you_ see her?"

"Of course!" he grunted. "Didn't I say a dozen times that the psychons
are transmuted to perfectly ordinary quanta of visible light? If you
could see her, why not I?"

"But--what about billboards and all?"

"That face," said the professor slowly. "It's somewhat idealized, of
course, and certain details are wrong. Her eyes aren't that pallid
silver-blue you imagined; they're green--sea-green, emerald colored."

"What the devil," I asked hoarsely, "are you talking about?"

"About the face in the mirror. It happens to be, Dixon, a close
approximation of the features of de Lisle d'Agrion, the Dragon Fly!"

"You mean--she's real? She exists? She lives? She--"

"Wait a moment, Dixon. She's real enough, but in accordance with your
habit, you're a little late. About twenty-five years too late, I should
say. She must now be somewhere in the fifties--let's see--fifty-three, I
think. But during your very early childhood, you must have seen her face
pictured everywhere, de Lisle d'Agrion, the Dragon Fly."

I could only gulp. That blow was devastating.

"You see," continued van Manderpootz, "one's ideals are implanted very
early. That's why you continually fall in love with girls who possess
one or another feature that reminds you of her, her hair, her nose, her
mouth, her eyes. Very simple, but rather curious."

"Curious!" I blazed. "Curious, you say! Everytime I look into one of
your damned contraptions I find myself in love with a myth! A girl who's
dead, or married, or unreal, or turned into an old woman! Curious, eh?
Damned funny, isn't it?"

"Just a moment," said the professor placidly. "It happens, Dixon, that
she has a daughter. What's more, Denise resembles her mother. And what's
still more, she's arriving in New York next week to study American
letters at the University here. She writes, you see."

That was too much for immediate comprehension. "How--how do you know?" I
gasped.

It was one of the few times I have seen the colossal blandness of van
Manderpootz ruffled. He reddened a trifle, and said slowly, "It also
happens, Dixon, that many years ago in Amsterdam, Haskel van Manderpootz
and de Lisle d'Agrion were--very friendly--more than friendly, I might
say, but for the fact that two such powerful personalities as the Dragon
Fly and van Manderpootz were always at odds." He frowned. "I was almost
her second husband. She's had seven, I believe; Denise is the daughter
of her third."

"Why--why is she coming here?"

"Because," he said with dignity, "van Manderpootz is here. I am still a
friend of de Lisle's." He turned and bent over the complex device on the
table. "Hand me that wrench," he ordered. "Tonight I dismantle this, and
tomorrow start reconstructing it for Isaak's head."
