
The last few moments of the God's descent were quite rapid.
Simultaneously, the darting red flames seemed to lessen in intensity
and length. Then, at the second of impact, they brightened again to
previous power--but too late. The impact was hard.

Grg and Yrl gasped as one of the God's double-tentacles buckled,
crumpled, with a glinting of shiny-hard material. The flames stopped.

The God, unable to remain erect with its injury, slowly toppled. Its
body thudded silently, stirring pumice dust. It was motionless.

Grg and Yrl stared at each other.

Was the God fatally injured? Dying? Dead? (For a broken tentacle meant
that fluids would seep out, and soon the dry-death would occur.)

The God stirred.

It braced two sets of tentacles against the ground, as if trying
to push itself erect. The effort was not successful. Again it
was motionless. The two double-tentacles remained outstretched,
however--and they pointed at the shadows where Grg and Yrl waited and
watched.

Grg and Yrl sighed in relief.

The God had assumed conversation-position.

It must have healed its broken tentacle--truly a God! Soon it would be
as good as new; for otherwise, agony would forbid conversation.

It was ready to address them. Now.

This was the greatest moment of Grg's and Yrl's lives.

They waited for the God to speak.

It was silent.

A long time passed. The God remained motionless, though in
conversation-position, and silent. A _very_ long time passed.

Then a tiny hole appeared in the God's side. It grew
larger--larger--and then it stopped growing larger.

Something appeared at the hole. It paused, then dropped to the surface
of Phobos, where it began to crawl about.

It bore considerable resemblance to a _plllnk_, except for its
shiny-wrinkled grey skin (_plllnks_ were purple.) And this thing was
huge--_Huge_. It was one-fifth the size of the God's body.

Caught by horror, and fearing the worst, Grg and Yrl waited for the God
to speak.

(_Damn_, John Cotter was thinking. _That was a neat bit of sloppiness,
that landing.... Carruthers will chew me out and in again!_ Pause:
_Holy cats, I hope the radio isn't busted, or I'll have a helluva wait
before they follow up and find me!..._)
