
Edward Eakins walked through the jungle with a long-handled spade on
his shoulder, sucking reflectively on a piece of candy. It was the
first he'd had in weeks, and he was enjoying it to the utmost. He
was in very good spirits. The schooner yesterday had brought in not
only machinery and replacement parts, but also candy, cigarettes and
food. He had eaten scrambled eggs this morning, and real bacon. The
expedition was becoming almost civilized.

Something rustled in the bushes near him. He marched on, ignoring it.

He was a lean, sandy-haired man, amiable and slouching, with pale blue
eyes and an unprepossessing manner. He felt very lucky to have been
taken on the expedition. His gas station didn't put him on a financial
par with the others, and he hadn't been able to put up a full share
of the money. He still felt guilty about that. He had been accepted
because he was an eager and indefatigable treasure-hunter with a good
knowledge of jungle ways. Equally important, he was a skilled radio
operator and repairman. He had kept the transmitter on the ketch in
working condition in spite of salt water and mildew.

He could pay his full share now, of course. But _now_, when they were
practically rich, didn't really count. He wished there were some way he
could--

There was that rustle in the bushes again.

Eakins stopped and waited. The bushes trembled. And out stepped a mouse.

Eakins was amazed. The mice on this island, like most wild animal life,
were terrified of man. Although they feasted off the refuse of the
camp--when the rats didn't get it first--they carefully avoided any
contact with humans.

"You better get yourself home," Eakins said to the mouse.

The mouse stared at him. He stared back. It was a pretty little mouse,
no more than four or five inches long, and colored a light tawny brown.
It didn't seem afraid.

"So long, mouse," Eakins said. "I got work to do." He shifted his spade
to the other shoulder and turned to go. As he turned, he caught a flash
of brown out of the corner of his eye. Instinctively he ducked. The
mouse whirled past him, turned, and gathered itself for another leap.

"Mouse, are you out of your head?" Eakins asked.

The mouse bared its tiny teeth and sprang. Eakins knocked it aside.

"Now get the hell out of here," he said. He was beginning to wonder if
the rodent was crazy. Did it have rabies, perhaps?

The mouse gathered itself for another charge. Eakins lifted the spade
off his shoulders and waited. When the mouse sprang, he met it with a
carefully timed blow. Then carefully, regretfully, he battered it to
death.

"Can't have rabid mice running around," he said.

But the mouse hadn't seemed rabid; it had just seemed very determined.

Eakins scratched his head. Now what, he wondered, had gotten into that
little mouse?

In the camp that evening, Eakins' story was greeted with hoots of
laughter. It was just like Eakins to be attacked by a mouse. Several
men suggested that he go armed in case the mouse's family wanted
revenge. Eakins just smiled sheepishly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two days later, Sorensen and Al Cable were finishing up a morning's
hard work at Site 4, two miles from the camp. The metals detector had
shown marked activity at this spot. They were seven feet down and
nothing had been produced yet except a high mound of yellow-brown earth.

"That detector must be wrong," Cable said, wiping his face wearily.
He was a big, pinkish man. He had sweated off twenty pounds on Vuanu,
picked up a bad case of prickly heat, and had enough treasure-hunting
to last him a lifetime. He wished he were back in Baltimore taking care
of his used-car agency. He didn't hesitate to say so, often and loudly.
He was one member who had not worked out well.

"Nothing wrong with the detector," Sorensen said. "Trouble is, we're
digging in swampy ground. The cache must have sunk."

"It's probably a hundred feet down," Cable said, stabbing angrily at
the gluey mud.

"Nope," Sorensen said. "There's volcanic rock under us, no more than
twenty feet down."

"Twenty feet? We should have a bulldozer."

"Might be costly bringing one in," Sorensen said mildly. "Come on, Al,
let's get back to camp."

Sorensen helped Cable out of the excavation. They cleaned off their
tools and started toward the narrow path leading back to the camp. They
stopped abruptly.

A large, ugly bird had stepped out of the brush. It was standing on the
path, blocking their way.

"What in hell is that?" Cable asked.

"A cassowary," Sorensen said.

"Well, let's boot it out of the way and get going."

"Take it easy," Sorensen said. "If anyone does any booting, it'll be
the bird. Back away slowly."

The cassowary was nearly five feet high, a black-feathered ostrich-like
bird standing erect on powerful legs. Each of its feet was three-toed,
and the toes curved into heavy talons. It had a yellowish, bony head
and short, useless wings. From its neck hung a brilliant wattle colored
red, green, and purple.

"It is dangerous?" Cable asked.

Sorensen nodded. "Natives on New Guinea have been kicked to death by
those birds."

"Why haven't we seen it before?" Cable asked.

"They're usually very shy," Sorensen said. "They stay as far from
people as they can."

"This one sure isn't shy," Cable said, as the cassowary took a step
toward them. "Can we run?"

"The bird can run a lot faster," Sorensen said. "I don't suppose you
have a gun with you?"

"Of course not. There's been nothing to shoot."

       *       *       *       *       *

Backing away, they held their spades like spears. The brush crackled
and an anteater emerged. It was followed by a wild pig. The three
beasts converged on the men, backing them toward the dense wall of the
jungle.

"They're herding us," Cable said, his voice going shrill.

"Take it easy," Sorensen said. "The cassowary is the only one we have
to watch out for."

"Aren't anteaters dangerous?"

"Only to ants."

"The hell you say," Cable said. "Bill, the animals on this island have
gone crazy. Remember Eakins' mouse?"

"I remember it," Sorensen said. They had reached the far edge of the
clearing. The beasts were in front of them, still advancing, with the
cassowary in the center. Behind them lay the jungle--and whatever they
were being herded toward.

"We'll have to make a break for it," Sorensen said.

"That damned bird is blocking the trail."

"We'll have to knock him over," Sorensen said. "Watch out for his feet.
Let's go!"

They raced toward the cassowary, swinging their spades. The cassowary
hesitated, unable to make up its mind between targets. Then it turned
toward Cable and its right leg lashed out. The partially deflected blow
sounded like the flat of a meat cleaver against a side of beef. Cable
grunted and collapsed, clutching his ribs.

Sorensen stabbed, and the honed edge of his spade nearly severed the
cassowary's head from its body. The wild pig and the anteater were
coming at him now. He flailed with his spade, driving them back. Then,
with a strength he hadn't known he possessed, he stooped, lifted Cable
across his shoulders and ran down the path.

A quarter of a mile down he had to stop, completely out of breath.
There were no sounds behind him. The other animals were apparently not
following. He went back to the wounded man.

Cable had begun to recover consciousness. He was able to walk,
half-supported by Sorensen. When they reached the camp, Sorensen called
everybody in for a meeting. He counted heads while Eakins taped up
Cable's side. Only one man was missing.

"Where's Drake?" Sorensen asked.

"He's across the island at North Beach, fishing," said Tom Recetich.
"Want me to get him?"

Sorensen hesitated. Finally he said, "No. I'd better explain what
we're up against. Then we'll issue the guns. _Then_ we'll try to find
Drake."

"Man, what's going on?" Recetich asked.

Sorensen began to explain what had happened at Site 4.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fishing provided an important part of the expedition's food and there
was no work Drake liked better. At first he had gone out with face
mask and spear gun. But the sharks in this corner of the world were
numerous, hungry and aggressive. So, regretfully, he had given up skin
diving and set out handlines on the leeward side of the island.

The lines were out now, and Drake lay in the shade of a palm tree,
half asleep, his big forearms folded over his chest. His dog, Oro, was
prowling the beach in search of hermit crabs. Oro was a good-natured
mutt, part airdale, part terrier, part unknown. He was growling at
something now.

"Leave the crabs alone," Drake called out. "You'll just get nipped
again."

Oro was still growling. Drake rolled over and saw that the dog was
standing stiff-legged over a large insect. It looked like some kind of
scorpion.

"Oro, leave that blasted--"

Before Drake could move, the insect sprang. It landed on Oro's neck and
the jointed tail whipped out. Oro yelped once. Drake was on his feet
instantly. He swatted at the bug, but it jumped off the dog's neck and
scuttled into the brush.

"Take it easy, old boy," Drake said. "That's a nasty-looking wound.
Might be poisoned. I better open it up."

He held the panting dog firmly and drew his boat knife. He had operated
on the dog for snake bite in Central America, and in the Adirondacks
he had held him down and pulled porcupine quills out of his mouth with
a pair of pliers. The dog always knew he was being helped. He never
struggled.

This time, the dog bit.

"Oro!" Drake grabbed the dog at the jaw hinge with his free hand. He
brought pressure to bear, paralyzing the muscles, forcing the dog's
jaws open. He pulled his hand out and flung the dog away. Oro rolled to
his feet and advanced on him again.

"Stand!" Drake shouted. The dog kept coming, edging around to get
between the ocean and the man.

Turning, Drake saw the bug emerge from the jungle and creep toward him.
His dog had circled around and was trying to drive him toward the bug.

Drake didn't know what was going on, and he decided he'd better not
stay to find out. He picked up his knife and threw it at the bug. He
missed. The bug was almost within jumping distance.

Drake ran toward the ocean. When Oro tried to intercept him, he kicked
the dog out of the way and plunged into the water.

He began to swim around the island to the camp, hoping he'd make it
before the sharks got him.

