
At the camp, rifles and revolvers were hastily wiped clean of cosmoline
and passed around. Binoculars were taken out and adjusted. Cartridges
were divided up, and the supply of knives, machetes and hatchets
quickly disappeared. The expedition's two walkie-talkies were unpacked,
and the men prepared to move out in search of Drake. Then they saw him,
swimming vigorously around the edge of the island.

He waded ashore, tired but uninjured. He and the others put their
information together and reached some unhappy conclusions.

"Do you mean to say," Cable demanded, "that a _bug_ is doing all this?"

"It looks that way," Sorensen said. "We have to assume that it's able
to exercise some kind of thought control. Maybe hypnotic or telepathic."

"It has to sting first," Drake said. "That's what it did with Oro."

"I just can't imagine a scorpion doing all that," Recetich said.

"It's not a scorpion," Drake said. "I saw it close up. It's got a tail
like a scorpion, but its head is damn near four times as big, and its
body is different. Up close, it doesn't look like anything you ever saw
before."

"Do you think it's native to this island?" asked Monty Byrnes, a
treasure-seeker from Indianapolis.

"I doubt it," Drake said. "If it is, why did it leave us and the
animals alone for three months?"

"That's right," Sorensen said. "All our troubles began just after the
schooner came. The schooner must have brought it from somewhere....
Hey!"

"What is it?" Drake asked.

"Remember that scorpion the skipper tried to squash? It came out of the
detector crate. Do you think it could be the same one?"

Drake shrugged his shoulders. "Could be. Seems to me our problem right
now isn't finding out where it came from. We have to figure out what to
do about it."

"If it can control animals," Byrnes said, "I wonder if it can control
men."

       *       *       *       *       *

They were all silent. They had moved into a circle near the copra shed,
and while they talked they watched the jungle for any sign of insect or
animal life.

Sorensen said, "We'd better radio for help."

"If we do that," Recetich said, "somebody's going to find out about the
_Santa Teresa_ treasure. We'll be overrun in no time."

"Maybe so," Sorensen said. "But at the worst, we've cleared expenses.
We've even made a small profit."

"And if we don't get help," Drake said, "we may be in no condition to
take anything out of here."

"The problem isn't as bad as all that," Byrnes said. "We've got guns.
We can take care of the animals."

"You haven't seen the bug yet," Drake said.

"We'll squash it."

"That won't be easy," Drake said. "It's faster than hell. And how are
you going to squash it if it comes into your hut some night while
you're asleep? We could post guards and they wouldn't even see the
thing."

Brynes shuddered involuntarily. "Yeah, I guess you're right. Maybe we'd
better radio for help."

Eakins stood up. "Well, gents," he said, "I guess that means me. I just
hope the batteries on the ketch are up to charge."

"It'll be dangerous going out there," Drake said. "We'll draw lots."

Eakins was amused. "We will? How many of you can operate a transmitter?"

Drake said, "I can."

"No offense meant," Eakins said, "but you don't operate that set of
yours worth a damn. You don't even know Morse for key transmission. And
can you fix the set if it goes out?"

"No," Drake said. "But the whole thing is too risky. We all should go."

Eakins shook his head. "Safest thing all around is if you cover me from
the beach. That bug probably hasn't thought about the ketch yet."

Eakins stuck a tool kit in his pocket and strapped one of the camp's
walkie-talkies over his shoulder. He handed the other one to Sorensen.
He hurried down the beach past the launch and pushed the small dinghy
into the water. The men of the expedition spread out, their rifles
ready. Eakins got into the dinghy and started rowing across the quiet
lagoon.

They saw him tie up to the ketch and pause a moment, looking around.
Then he climbed aboard. Quickly he slid back the hatch and went inside.

"Everything all right?" Sorensen asked.

"No trouble yet," Eakins said, his voice sounding thin and sharp over
the walkie-talkie. "I'm at the transmitter now, turning it on. It needs
a couple of minutes to warm up."

Drake nudged Sorensen. "Look over there."

On the reef, almost hidden by the ketch, something was moving. Using
binoculars, Sorensen could see three big gray rats slipping into the
water. They began swimming toward the ketch.

"Start firing!" Sorensen said. "Eakins, get out of there!"

"I've got the transmitter going," Eakins said. "I just need a couple of
minutes more to get a message off."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bullets sent up white splashes around the swimming rats. One was hit;
the other two managed to put the ketch between them and the riflemen.
Studying the reef with his binoculars, Sorensen saw an anteater cross
the reef and splash into the water. It was followed by a wild pig.

There was a crackle of static from the walkie-talkie. Sorensen called,
"Eakins, have you got that message off?"

"Haven't sent it," Eakins called back. "Listen, Bill. We _mustn't_ send
any messages! That bug wants--" He stopped abruptly.

"What is it?" Sorensen asked. "What's happening?"

Eakins had appeared on deck, still holding the walkie-talkie. He was
backing toward the stern.

"Hermit crabs," he said. "They climbed up the anchor line. I'm going to
swim to shore."

"Don't do it," Sorensen said.

"Gotta do it," Eakins said. "They'll probably follow me. All of you
come out here and _get that transmitter_. Bring it ashore."

Through his binoculars, Sorensen could see a solid gray carpet of
hermit crabs crawling down the deck and waterways of the ketch. Eakins
jumped into the water. He swam furiously toward shore, and Sorensen saw
the rats turn and follow him. Hermit crabs swarmed off the boat, and
the wild pig and the anteater paddled after him, trying to head him off
before he reached the beach.

"Come on," Sorensen said. "I don't know what Eakins figured out, but we
better get that transmitter while we have a chance."

They ran down the beach and put the launch into the water. Two hundred
yards away, Eakins had reached the far edge of the beach with the
animals in close pursuit. He broke into the jungle, still clinging to
his walkie-talkie.

"Eakins?" Sorensen asked into the walkie-talkie.

"I'm all right," Eakins said, panting hard for air. "Get that
transmitter, and don't forget the batteries!"

The men boarded the ketch. Working furiously, they ripped the
transmitter off its bulkhead and dragged it up the companionway steps.
Drake came last, carrying a twelve-volt battery. He went down again and
brought up a second battery. He hesitated a moment, then went below for
a third time.

"Drake!" Sorensen shouted. "Quit holding us up!"

Drake reappeared, carrying the ketch's two radio direction finders and
the compass. He handed them down and jumped into the launch.

"OK," he said. "Let's go."

       *       *       *       *       *

They rowed to the beach. Sorensen was trying to re-establish contact
with Eakins on the walkie-talkie, but all he could hear was static.
Then, as the launch grounded on the beach, he heard Eakins' voice.

"I'm surrounded," he said, very quietly. "I guess I'll have to see what
Mr. Bug wants. Maybe I can swat him first, though."

There was a long silence. Then Eakins said, "It's coming toward me now.
Drake was right. It sure isn't like any bug _I've_ ever seen. I'm going
to swat hell out of--"

They heard him scream, more in surprise than pain.

Sorensen said, "Eakins, can you hear me? Where are you? Can we help?"

"It sure _is_ fast," Eakins said, his voice conversational again.
"Fastest damned bug I've ever seen. Jumped on my neck, stung me and
jumped off again."

"How do you feel?" Sorensen asked.

"Fine," Eakins said. "Hardly felt the sting."

"Where is the bug now?"

"Back in the bush."

"The animals?"

"They went away. You know," Eakins said, "maybe this thing doesn't
work on humans. Maybe--"

"What?" Sorensen asked. "What's happening now?"

There was a long silence. Then Eakins' voice, low-pitched and calm,
came over the walkie-talkie.

"We'll speak with you again later," Eakins said. "We must take
consultation now and decide what to do with you."

"_Eakins!_"

There was no answer from the other end of the walkie-talkie.

