
Returning to their camp, the men were in a mood of thorough depression.
They couldn't understand what had happened to Eakins and they didn't
feel like speculating on it. The ravaging afternoon sun beat down,
reflecting heat back from the white sand. The damp jungle steamed, and
appeared to creep toward them like a huge and sleepy green dragon,
trapping them against the indifferent sea. Gun barrels grew too hot to
touch, and the water in the canteens was as warm as blood. Overhead,
thick gray cumulus clouds began to pile up; it was the beginning of the
monsoon season.

Drake sat in the shade of the copra shed. He shook off his lethargy
long enough to inspect the camp from the viewpoint of defense. He saw
the encircling jungle as enemy territory. In front of it was an area
fifty yards deep which they had cleared. This no man's land could
perhaps be defended for a while.

Then came the huts and the copra shed, their last line of defense,
leading to the beach and the sea.

The expedition had been in complete control of this island for better
than three months. Now they were pinned to a small and precarious
beachhead.

Drake glanced at the lagoon behind him and remembered that there was
still one line of retreat open. If the bug and his damned menagerie
pressed too hard, they could still escape in the ketch. With luck.

Sorensen came over and sat down beside him. "What are you doing?" he
asked.

Drake grinned sourly. "Planning our master strategy."

"How does it look?"

"I think we can hold out," Drake said. "We've got plenty of ammo. If
necessary, we'll interdict the cleared area with gasoline. We certainly
aren't going to let that bug push us off the island." He thought for a
moment. "But it's going to be damned hard digging for treasure."

Sorensen nodded. "I wonder what the bug wants."

"Maybe we'll find out from Eakins," Drake said.

       *       *       *       *       *

They had to wait half an hour. Then Eakins' voice came, sharp and
shrill over the walkie-talkie.

"Sorensen? Drake?"

"We're here," Drake said. "What did that damned bug do to you?"

"Nothing," Eakins said. "You are talking to that bug now. My name is
the Quedak."

"My God," Drake said to Sorensen, "that bug must have hypnotized him!"

"No. You are not speaking to a hypnotized Eakins. Nor are you speaking
to a creature who is simply using Eakins as a mouthpiece. Nor are you
speaking to the Eakins who was. You are speaking to many individuals
who are one."

"I don't get that," Drake said.

"It's very simple," Eakins' voice replied. "I am the Quedak, the
totality. But my totality is made up of separate parts, which
are Eakins, several rats, a dog named Oro, a pig, an anteater, a
cassowary--"

"Hold on," Sorensen said. "Let me get this straight. This is _not_
Eakins I'm speaking to. This is the--the Quedak?"

"That is correct."

"And you control Eakins and the others? You speak through Eakins'
mouth?"

"Also correct. But that doesn't mean that the personalities of
the others are obliterated. Quite the contrary, the Quedak state
is a federation in which the various member parts retain their
idiosyncrasies, their individual needs and desires. They give their
knowledge, their power, their special outlook to the Quedak whole. The
Quedak is the coordinating and command center; but the individual parts
supply the knowledge, the insights, the special skills. And together we
form the Great Cooperation."

"Cooperation?" Drake said. "But you did all this by force!"

"It was necessary in the beginning. Otherwise, how would other
creatures have known about the Great Cooperation?"

"Would they stay if you released your control over them?" Drake asked.

"That is a meaningless question. We form a single indivisible entity
now. Would your arm return to you if you cut it off?"

"It isn't the same thing."

"It is," Eakins' voice said. "We are a single organism. We are still
growing. And we welcome you wholeheartedly into the Great Cooperation."

"To hell with that," Drake said.

"But you must join," the Quedak told them. "It is the Quedak Mission to
coordinate all sentient creatures into a single collective organism.
Believe me, there is only the most trifling loss of the individuality
you prize so highly. And you gain so much more! You learn the
viewpoints and special knowledge of all other creatures. Within the
Quedak framework you can fully realize your potentialities--"

"No!"

"I am sorry," the Quedak said. "The Quedak Mission must be fulfilled.
You will not join us willingly?"

"Never," Drake said.

"Then _we_ will join _you_," the Quedak said.

There was a click as he turned off the walkie-talkie.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the fringe of the jungle, several rats appeared. They hesitated,
just out of rifle range. A bird of paradise flew overhead, hovering
over the cleared area like an observation plane. As the men watched,
the rats began to run forward in long zigzags.

"Start firing," Drake called out. "But go easy with the ammo."

The men began to fire. But it was difficult to sight on the
quick-moving rats against the grayish-brown clearing. And almost
immediately, the rats were joined by a dozen hermit crabs. They had
an uncanny knack for moving when no one was watching them, darting
forward, then freezing against the neutral background.

They saw Eakins appear on the fringe of the jungle.

"Lousy traitor," Cable said, raising his rifle.

Sorensen slapped the muzzle of the rifle aside. "Don't do it."

"But he's helping that bug!"

"He can't help it," Sorensen said. "And he's not armed. Leave him
alone."

Eakins watched for a few moments, then melted back into the jungle.

The attack by the rats and crabs swept across half of the cleared
space. Then, as they came closer, the men were able to pick their
targets with more accuracy. Nothing was able to get closer than twenty
yards. And when Recetich shot down the bird of paradise, the attack
began to falter.

"You know," Drake said, "I think we're going to be all right."

"Could be," said Sorensen. "I don't understand what the Quedak is
trying to accomplish. He knows we can't be taken like this. I should
think--"

"Hey!" one of the men called out. "Our boat!"

They turned and saw why the Quedak had ordered the attack. While it
had occupied their attention, Drake's dog had swum out to the ketch
and gnawed through the anchor line. Unattended, the ketch was drifting
before the wind, moving toward the reef. They saw it bump gently, then
harder. In a moment it was heeled hard over, stuck in the coral.

There was a burst of static from the walkie-talkie. Sorensen held it
up and heard the Quedak say, "The ketch isn't seriously damaged. It's
simply immobilized."

"The hell you say," Drake growled. "For all you know, it's got a hole
punched right through it. How do you plan on getting off the island,
Quedak? Or are you just going to stay here?"

"I will leave at the proper time," the Quedak said. "I want to make
sure that we all leave together."

