
The wind died. Huge gray thunderheads piled up in the sky to the
southeast, their tops lost in the upper atmosphere, their black anvil
bottoms pressing the hot still air upon the island. The sun had lost
its fiery glare. Cherry-red, it slid listlessly toward the flat sea.

High overhead, a single bird of paradise circled, just out of rifle
range. It had gone up ten minutes after Recetich had shot the first one
down.

Monty Byrnes stood on the edge of the cleared area, his rifle ready.
He had drawn the first guard shift. The rest of the men were eating a
hasty dinner inside the copra shed. Sorensen and Drake were outside,
looking over the situation.

Drake said, "By nightfall we'll have to pull everybody back into the
shed. Can't take a chance on being exposed to the Quedak in the dark."

Sorensen nodded. He seemed to have aged ten years in a day's time.

"In the morning," Drake said, "we'll be able to work something out
We'll.... What's wrong, Bill?"

"Do you really think we have a chance?" Sorensen asked.

"Sure we do. We've got a damned good chance."

"Be realistic," Sorensen said. "The longer this goes on, the more
animals the Quedak can throw against us. What can we do about it?"

"Hunt him out and kill him."

"The damned thing is about the size of your thumb," Sorensen said
irritably. "How can we hunt him?"

"We'll figure out something," Drake said. He was beginning to get
worried about Sorensen. The morale among the men was low enough without
Sorensen pushing it down further.

"I wish someone would shoot that damned bird," Sorensen said, glancing
overhead.

About every fifteen minutes, the bird of paradise came darting down for
a closer look at the camp. Then, before the guard had a chance to fire,
he swept back up to a safe altitude.

"It's getting on my nerves, too," Drake said. "Maybe that's what it's
supposed to do. One of these times we'll--"

He stopped abruptly. From the copra shed he could hear the loud hum of
a radio. And he heard Al Cable saying, "Hello, hello, this is Vuanu
calling. We need help."

Drake and Sorensen went into the shed. Cable was sitting in front of
the transmitter, saying into the microphone, "Emergency, emergency,
Vuanu calling, we need--"

"What in hell do you think you're doing?" Drake snapped.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cable turned and looked at him, his pudgy pink body streaked with
sweat. "I'm radioing for help, that's what I'm doing. I think I've
picked up somebody. But they haven't answered me yet."

He readjusted the tuning. Over the receiver, they could hear a bored
British voice saying, "Pawn to Queen four, eh? Why don't you ever try a
different opening?"

There was a sharp burst of static. "Just move," a deep bass voice
answered. "Just shut up and move."

"Sure," said the British voice. "Knight to king bishop three."

Drake recognized the voices. They were ham radio operators. One of
them owned a plantation on Bougainville; the other was a shopkeeper in
Rabaul. They came on the air for an hour of chess and argument every
evening.

Cable tapped the microphone impatiently. "Hello," he said, "this is
Vuanu calling, emergency call--"

Drake walked over and took the microphone out of Cable's hand. He put
it down carefully.

"We can't call for help," he said.

"What are you talking about?" Cable cried. "We have to!"

Drake felt very tired. "Look, if we send out a distress call,
somebody's going to come sailing right in--but they won't be prepared
for this kind of trouble. The Quedak will take them over and then use
them against us."

"We can explain what the trouble is," Cable said.

"_Explain?_ Explain _what_? That a bug is taking over the island?
They'd think we were crazy with fever. They'd send in a doctor on the
inter-island schooner."

"Dan's right," Sorensen said. "Nobody would believe this without seeing
it for himself."

"And by then," Drake said, "it'd be too late. Eakins figured it out
before the Quedak got him. That's why he told us not to send any
messages."

Cable looked dubious. "But why did he want us to take the transmitter?"

"So that _he_ couldn't send any messages after the bug got him," Drake
said. "The more people trampling around, the easier it would be for the
Quedak. If he had possession of the transmitter, he'd be calling for
help right now."

"Yeah, I suppose so," Cable said unhappily. "But, damn it, we can't
handle this _alone_."

"We have to. If the Quedak ever gets us and then gets off the island,
that's it for Earth. Period. There won't be any big war, no hydrogen
bombs or fallout, no heroic little resistance groups. Everybody will
become part of the Quedak Cooperation."

"We ought to get help somehow," Cable said stubbornly. "We're alone,
isolated. Suppose we ask for a ship to stand offshore--"

"It won't work," Drake said. "Besides, we couldn't ask for help even if
we wanted to."

"Why not?"

"Because the transmitter's not working," Drake said. "You've been
talking into a dead mike."

"It's receiving OK," Cable said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Drake checked to see if all the switches were on. "Nothing wrong with
the receiver. But we must have joggled something taking the transmitter
out of the ship. It isn't working."

Cable tapped the dead microphone several times, then put it down. They
stood around the receiver, listening to the chess game between the man
in Rabaul and the man in Bougainville.

"Pawn to queen bishop four."

"Pawn to king three."

"Knight to Queen bishop three."

There was a sudden staccato burst of static. It faded, then came again
in three distinct bursts.

"What do you suppose that is?" Sorensen asked.

Drake shrugged his shoulders. "Could be anything. Storm's shaping up
and--"

He stopped. He had been standing beside the door of the shed. As the
static crackled, he saw the bird of paradise dive for a closer look.
The static stopped when the bird returned to its slow-circling higher
altitude.

"That's strange," Drake said. "Did you see that, Bill? The bird came
down and the static went on at the same time."

"I saw it," Sorensen said. "Think it means anything?"

"I don't know. Let's see." Drake took out his field glasses. He turned
up the volume of the receiver and stepped outside where he could
observe the jungle. He waited, hearing the sounds of the chess game
three or four hundred miles away.

"Come on now, move."

"Give me a minute."

"A minute? Listen, I can't stand in front of this bleeding set all
night. Make your--"

Static crackled sharply. Drake saw four wild pigs come trotting out of
the jungle, moving slowly, like a reconnaissance squad probing for weak
spots in an enemy position. They stopped; the static stopped. Byrnes,
standing guard with his rifle, took a snap shot at them. The pigs
turned, and static crackled as they moved back into the jungle. There
was more static as the bird of paradise swept down for a look, then
climbed out of range. After that, the static stopped.

Drake put down his binoculars and went back inside the shed. "That must
be it," he said. "The static is related to the Quedak. I think it comes
when he's operating the animals."

"You mean he has come sort of radio control over them?" Sorensen asked.

"Seems like it," Drake said. "Either radio control or something
propagated along a radio wavelength."

"If that's the case," Sorensen said, "he's like a little radio station,
isn't he?"

"Sure he is. So what?"

"Then we should be able to locate him on a radio direction finder,"
Sorensen said.

Drake nodded emphatically. He snapped off the receiver, went to a
corner of the shed and took out one of their portable direction
finders. He set it to the frequency at which Cable had picked up the
Rabaul-Bougainville broadcast. Then he turned it on and walked to the
door.

       *       *       *       *       *

The men watched while Drake rotated the loop antenna. He located the
maximum signal, then turned the loop slowly, read the bearing and
converted it to a compass course. Then he sat down with a small-scale
chart of the Southwest Pacific.

"Well," Sorensen asked, "is it the Quedak?"

"It's got to be," said Drake. "I located a good null almost due south.
That's straight ahead in the jungle."

"You're sure it isn't a reciprocal bearing?"

"I checked that out."

"Is there any chance the signal comes from some other station?"

"Nope. Due south, the next station is Sydney, and that's seventeen
hundred miles away. Much too far for this RDF. It's the Quedak, all
right."

"So we have a way of locating him," Sorensen said. "Two men with
direction finders can go into the jungle--"

"--and get themselves killed," Drake said. "We can position the Quedak
with RDFs, but his animals can locate us a lot faster. We wouldn't have
a chance in the jungle."

Sorensen looked crestfallen. "Then we're no better off than before."

"We're a lot better off," Drake said. "We have a chance now."

"What makes you think so?"

"He controls the animals by radio," Drake said. "We know the frequency
he operates on. We can broadcast on the same frequency. We can jam his
signal."

"Are you sure about that?"

"Am I _sure_? Of course not. But I do know that two stations in the
same area can't broadcast over the same frequency. If we tuned in
to the frequency the Quedak uses, made enough noise to override his
signal--"

"I see," Sorensen said. "Maybe it would work! If we could interfere
with his signal, he wouldn't be able to control the animals. And then
we could hunt him down with the RDFs."

"That's the idea," Drake said. "It has only one small flaw--our
transmitter isn't working. With no transmitter, we can't do any
broadcasting. No broadcasting, no jamming."

"Can you fix it?" Sorensen asked.

"I'll try," Drake said. "But we'd better not hope for too much. Eakins
was the radio man on this expedition."

"We've got all the spare parts," Sorensen said. "Tubes, manual,
everything."

"I know. Give me enough time and I'll figure out what's wrong. The
question is, how much time is the Quedak going to give us?"

The bright copper disk of the sun was half submerged in the sea. Sunset
colors touched the massing thunderheads and faded into the brief
tropical twilight. The men began to barricade the copra shed for the
night.

