
There are seven major brewers in the Munich area, each of them
represented by one of the circuslike tents that Mr. Oyster mentioned.
Each tent contained benches and tables for about five thousand persons
and from six to ten thousands pack themselves in, competing for room. In
the center is a tremendous bandstand, the musicians all _lederhosen_
clad, the music as Bavarian as any to be found in a Bavarian beer hall.
Hundreds of peasant garbed _fraeuleins_ darted about the tables with
quart sized earthenware mugs, platters of chicken, sausage, kraut and
pretzels.

I found a place finally at a table which had space for twenty-odd beer
bibbers. Odd is right. As weird an assortment of Germans and foreign
tourists as could have been dreamed up, ranging from a seventy- or
eighty-year-old couple in Bavarian costume, to the bald-headed drunk
across the table from me.

A desperate waitress bearing six mugs of beer in each hand scurried
past. They call them _masses_, by the way, not mugs. The bald-headed
character and I both held up a finger and she slid two of the _masses_
over to us and then hustled on.

"Down the hatch," the other said, holding up his _mass_ in toast.

"To the ladies," I told him. Before sipping, I said, "You know, the
tourist pamphlets say this stuff is eighteen per cent. That's nonsense.
No beer is that strong." I took a long pull.

He looked at me, waiting.

I came up. "Mistaken," I admitted.

A _mass_ or two apiece later he looked carefully at the name engraved on
his earthenware mug. "Loewenbraeu," he said. He took a small notebook from
his pocket and a pencil, noted down the word and returned the things.

"That's a queer looking pencil you have there," I told him. "German?"

"Venusian," he said. "Oops, sorry. Shouldn't have said that."

I had never heard of the brand so I skipped it.

"Next is the Hofbraeu," he said.

"Next what?" Baldy's conversation didn't seem to hang together very
well.

"My pilgrimage," he told me. "All my life I've been wanting to go back
to an _Oktoberfest_ and sample every one of the seven brands of the best
beer the world has ever known. I'm only as far as Loewenbraeu. I'm afraid
I'll never make it."

I finished my _mass_. "I'll help you," I told him. "Very noble endeavor.
Name is Simon."

"Arth," he said. "How could you help?"

"I'm still fresh--comparatively. I'll navigate you around. There are
seven beer tents. How many have you got through, so far?"

"Two, counting this one," Arth said.

I looked at him. "It's going to be a chore," I said. "You've already got
a nice edge on."

Outside, as we made our way to the next tent, the fair looked like every
big State-Fair ever seen, except it was bigger. Games, souvenir stands,
sausage stands, rides, side shows, and people, people, people.

The Hofbraeu tent was as overflowing as the last but we managed to find
two seats.

The band was blaring, and five thousand half-swacked voices were roaring
accompaniment.

    _In Muenchen steht ein Hofbraeuhaus!
    Eins, Zwei, G'sufa!_

At the _G'sufa_ everybody upped with the mugs and drank each other's
health.

"This is what I call a real beer bust," I said approvingly.

Arth was waving to a waitress. As in the Loewenbraeu tent, a full quart
was the smallest amount obtainable.

A beer later I said, "I don't know if you'll make it or not, Arth."

"Make what?"

"All seven tents."

"Oh."

A waitress was on her way by, mugs foaming over their rims. I gestured
to her for refills.

"Where are you from, Arth?" I asked him, in the way of making
conversation.

"2183."

"2183 where?"

He looked at me, closing one eye to focus better. "Oh," he said. "Well,
2183 South Street, ah, New Albuquerque."

"New Albuquerque? Where's that?"

Arth thought about it. Took another long pull at the beer. "Right across
the way from old Albuquerque," he said finally. "Maybe we ought to be
getting on to the Pschorrbraeu tent."

"Maybe we ought to eat something first," I said. "I'm beginning to feel
this. We could get some of that barbecued ox."

Arth closed his eyes in pain. "Vegetarian," he said. "Couldn't possibly
eat meat. Barbarous. Ugh."

"Well, we need some nourishment," I said.

"There's supposed to be considerable nourishment in beer."

That made sense. I yelled, "_Fraeulein! Zwei neu bier!_"
