
Professor Kempfer smiled wearily at the sunshine. The good, constant
sun, he thought, that gives of itself to all of us, no matter who or
where we are. Spring ... April, 1958.

Had it really been fifteen years--and sixteen years since the end of
the war? It didn't seem possible. But then one day had been exactly
like another for him, with only an electric light in the basement where
his real apparatus was, an electric light that never told him whether
it was morning, noon, or night.

I have become a cave-dweller! he thought with sudden realization. I
have forgotten to think in terms of serial time. What an odd little
trick I have played on myself!

Had he _really_ been coming here, to this bench, every clear day for
_fifteen_ years? Impossible! But....

He counted on his fingers. 1940 was the year England had surrendered,
with its air force destroyed and the Luftwaffe flying unchallenged air
cover for the swift invasion. He had been sent to England late that
year, to supervise the shipment home of the ultra-short wave-length
radar from the Royal Navy's anti-submarine warfare school. And 1941
was the year the U-boats took firm control of the Atlantic. 1942 was
the year the Russians lost at Stalingrad, starved by the millions, and
surrendered to a Wehrmacht fed on shiploads of Argentinian beef. 1942
was the end of the war, yes.

So it _had_ been that long.

I have become an indrawn old man, he thought to himself in bemusement.
So very busy with myself ... and the world has gone by, even while
I sat here and might have watched it, if I'd taken the trouble. The
world....

He took the sandwich from his coat pocket, unwrapped it, and began to
eat. But after the first few bites he forgot it, and held it in one
hand while he stared sightlessly in front of him.

His pale, mobile lips fell into a wry smile. The world--the vigorous
young world, so full of strength, so confident ... while I worked in my
cellar like some Bolshevik dreaming of a fantastic bomb that would wipe
out all my enemies at a stroke.

But what I have is not a bomb, and I have no enemies. I am an honored
citizen of the greatest empire the world has ever known. Hitler is
thirteen years dead in his auto accident, and the new chancellor is a
different sort of man. He has promised us no war with the Americans.
We have peace, and triumph, and these create a different sort of
atmosphere than do war and desperation. We have relaxed, now. We have
the fruit of our victory--what do we not have, in our empire of a
thousand years? Western civilization is safe at last from the hordes of
the East. Our future is assured. There is nothing, no one to fight, and
these young people walking here have never known a moment's doubt, an
instant's question of their place in an endlessly bright tomorrow. I
will soon die, and the rest of us who knew the old days will die soon
enough. It will all belong to the young people--all this eternal world.
It belongs to them already. It is just that some of us old ones have
not yet gotten altogether out of the way.

He stared out at the strolling crowds. How many years can I possibly
have left to me? Three? Two? Four? I could die tomorrow.

He sat absolutely still for a moment, listening to the thick old blood
slurring through his veins, to the thready flutter of his heart. It
hurt his eyes to see. It hurt his throat to breathe. The skin of his
hands was like spotted old paper.

Fifteen years of work. Fifteen years in his cellar, building what he
had built--for what? Was his apparatus going to change anything? Would
it detract even one trifle from this empire? Would it alter the life of
even one citizen in that golden tomorrow?

This world would go on exactly as it was. Nothing would change in the
least. So, what had he worked for? For himself? For this outworn husk
of one man?

Seen in that light, he looked like a very stupid man. Stupid,
foolish--monomaniacal.

Dear God, he thought with a rush of terrible intensity, am I now going
to persuade myself not to use what I have built?

For all these years he had worked, worked--without stopping, without
thinking. Now, in this first hour of rest, was he suddenly going to
spit on it all?
