
A stout bulk settled on the bench beside him. "Jochim," the complacent
voice said.

Professor Kempfer looked up. "Ah, Georg!" he said with an embarrassed
laugh, "You startled me."

Doctor Professor Georg Tanzler guffawed heartily. "Oh, Jochim, Jochim!"
he chuckled, shaking his head. "What a type you are! A thousand times
I've found you here at noon, and each time it seems as if it surprises
you. What do you think about, here on your bench?"

Professor Kempfer let his eyes stray. "Oh, I don't know," he said
gently. "I look at the young people."

"The girls--" Tanzler's elbow dug roguishly into his side. "The girls,
eh, Jochim?"

A veil drew over Professor Kempfer's eyes. "No," he whispered, "Not
like that. No."

"What, then?"

"Nothing," Professor Kempfer said dully. "I look at nothing."

Tanzler's mood changed instantly. "So," he declared with precision.
"I thought as much. Everyone knows you are working night and day, even
though there is no need for it." Tanzler resurrected a chuckle. "We are
not in any great hurry now. It's not as if we were pressed by anyone.
The Australians and Canadians are fenced off by our navy. The Americans
have their hands full in Asia. And your project, whatever it may be,
will help no one if you kill yourself with overwork."

"You know there is no project," Professor Kempfer whispered. "You know
it is all just busy work. No one reads my reports. No one checks my
results. They give me the equipment I ask for, and do not mind, as long
as it is not too much. You know that quite well. Why pretend otherwise?"

Tanzler sucked his lips. Then he shrugged. "Well, if you realize, then
you realize," he said cheerfully. Then he changed expression again, and
laid his hand on Professor Kempfer's arm in comradely fashion. "Jochim.
It has been fifteen years. Must you still try to bury yourself?"

Sixteen, Professor Kempfer corrected, and then realized Tanzler was
not thinking of the end of the war. Sixteen years since then, yes, but
fifteen since Marthe died. Only fifteen?

I _must_ learn to think in terms of serial time again. He realized
Tanzler was waiting for a response, and mustered a shrug.

"Jochim! Have you been listening to me?"

"Listening? Of course, Georg."

"Of course!" Tanzler snorted, his moustaches fluttering. "Jochim,"
he said positively, "it is not as if we were young men, I admit. But
life goes on, even for us old crocks." Tanzler was a good five years
Kempfer's junior. "We must look ahead--we must live for a future. We
cannot let ourselves sink into the past. I realize you were very fond
of Marthe. Every man is fond of his wife--that goes without saying. But
fifteen years, Jochim! Surely, it is proper to grieve. But to _mourn_,
like this--this is not _healthy_!"

One bright spark singed through the quiet barriers Professor Kempfer
had thought perfect. "Were _you_ ever in a camp, Georg?" he demanded,
shaking with pent-up violence.

"A camp?" Tanzler was taken aback. "I? Of course not, Jochim! But--but
you and Marthe were not in a real _lager_--it was just a ... a....
Well, you were under the State's protection! After all, Jochim!"

Professor Kempfer said stubbornly: "But Marthe _died_. Under the
State's protection."

"These things _happen_, Jochim! After all, you're a reasonable
man--Marthe--tuberculosis--even sulfa has its limitations--that might
have happened to _anyone_!"

"She did not have tuberculosis in 1939, when we were placed under the
State's protection. And when I finally said yes, I would go to work for
them, and they gave me the radar detector to work on, they promised me
it was only a little congestion in her bronchiae and that as soon as
she was well they would bring her home. And the war ended, and they
did _not_ bring her home. I was given the Knight's Cross from Hitler's
hands, personally, but they did _not_ bring her home. And the last time
I went to the sanitarium to see her, she was _dead_. And they paid for
it all, and gave me my laboratory here, and an apartment, and clothes,
and food, and a very good housekeeper, but Marthe was _dead_."

"Fifteen _years_, Jochim! Have you not forgiven us?"

"No. For a little while today--just a little while ago--I thought I
might. But--no."

Tanzler puffed out his lips and fluttered them with an exhaled breath.
"So," he said. "What are you going to do to us for it?"

Professor Kempfer shook his head. "To you? What should I do to you? The
men who arranged these things are all dead, or dying. If I had some
means of hurting the Reich--and I do not--how could I revenge myself on
these children?" He looked toward the passersby. "What am I to them,
or they to me? No--no, I am going to do nothing to you."

Tanzler raised his eyebrows and put his thick fingertips together. "If
you are going to do nothing to us, then what are you going to do to
yourself?"

"I am going to go away." Already, Professor Kempfer was ashamed of his
outburst. He felt he had controverted his essential character. A man of
science, after all--a thinking, _reasoning_ man--could not let himself
descend to emotional levels. Professor Kempfer was embarrassed to think
that Tanzler might believe this sort of lapse was typical of him.

"Who am I," he tried to explain, "to be judge and jury over a whole
nation--an empire? Who is one man, to decide good and evil? I look
at these youngsters, and I envy them with all my heart. To be young;
to find all the world arranged in orderly fashion for one's special
benefit; to have been placed on a surfboard, free to ride the crest of
the wave forever, and never to have to swim at all! Who am I, Georg?
Who am I?

"But I do not like it here. So I am going away."

Tanzler looked at him enigmatically. "To Carlsbad. For the radium
waters. Very healthful. We'll go together." He began pawing Professor
Kempfer's arm with great heartiness. "A splendid idea! I'll get the
seats reserved on the morning train. We'll have a holiday, eh, Jochim?"

"No!" He struggled to his feet, pulling Tanzler's hand away from his
arm. "_No!_" He staggered when Tanzler gave way. He began to walk fast,
faster than he had walked in years. He looked over his shoulder, and
saw Tanzler lumbering after him.

He began to run. He raised an arm. "Taxi! _Taxi!_" He lurched toward
the curb, while the strolling young people looked at him wide-eyed.
