
He hurried through the ground floor laboratory, his heart pumping
wildly. His eyes were fixed on the plain gray door to the fire stairs,
and he fumbled in his trousers pocket for the key. He stumbled against
a bench and sent apparatus crashing over. At the door, he steadied
himself and, using both hands, slipped the key into the lock. Once
through the door, he slammed it shut and locked it again, and listened
to the hoarse whistle of his breath in his nostrils.

Then, down the fire stairs he clattered, open-mouthed. Tanzler. Tanzler
would be at a telephone, somewhere. Perhaps the State Police were out
in the streets, in their cars, coming here, already.

He wrenched open the basement door, and locked it behind him in the
darkness before he turned on the lights. With his chest aching, he
braced himself on widespread feet and looked at the dull sheen of
yellow light on the racks of gray metal cabinets. They rose about him
like the blocks of a Mayan temple, with dials for carvings and pilot
lights for jewels, and he moved down the narrow aisle between them,
slowly and quietly now, like a last, enfeebled acolyte. As he walked he
threw switches, and the cabinets began to resonate in chorus.

The aisle led him, irrevocably, to the focal point. He read what the
dials on the master panel told him, and watched the power demand meter
inch into the green.

If they think to open the building circuit breakers!

If they shoot through the door!

_If I was wrong!_

Now there were people hammering on the door. Desperately weary, he
depressed the firing switch.

There was a galvanic thrum, half pain, half pleasure, as the vibratory
rate of his body's atoms was changed by an infinitesimal degree. Then
he stood in dank darkness, breathing musty air, while whatever parts of
his equipment had been included in the field fell to the floor.

Behind him, he left nothing. Vital resistors had, by design, come with
him. The overloaded apparatus in the basement laboratory began to
stench and burn under the surge of full power, and to sputter in Georg
Tanzler's face.
