
The basement he was in was not identical with the one he had left. That
could only mean that in this Berlin, something serious had happened to
at least one building on the Himmlerstrasse. Professor Kempfer searched
through the darkness with weary patience until he found a door, and
while he searched he considered the thought that some upheaval,
man-made or natural, had filled in the ground for dozens of meters
above his head, leaving only this one pocket of emptiness into which
his apparatus had shunted him.

When he finally found the door he leaned against it for some time, and
then he gently eased it open. There was nothing but blackness on the
other side, and at his first step he tripped and sprawled on a narrow
flight of stairs, bruising a hip badly. He found his footing again. On
quivering legs he climbed slowly and as silently as he could, clinging
to the harsh, newly-sawed wood of the bannister. He could not seem to
catch his breath. He had to gulp for air, and the darkness was shot
through with red swirlings.

He reached the top of the stairs, and another door. There was harsh
gray light seeping around it, and he listened intently, allowing for
the quick suck and thud of the pulse in his ears. When he heard nothing
for a long time, he opened it. He was at the end of a long corridor
lined with doors, and at the end there was another door opening on the
street.

Eager to get out of the building, and yet reluctant to leave as much
as he knew of this world, he moved down the corridor with exaggerated
caution.

It was a shoddy building. The paint on the walls was cheap, and the
linoleum on the floor was scuffed and warped. There were cracks in the
plastering. Everything was rough--half finished, with paint slapped
over it, everything drab. There were numbers on the doors, and dirty
rope mats in front of them. It was an apartment house, then--but from
the way the doors were jammed almost against each other, the apartments
had to be no more than cubicles.

Dreary, he thought. Dreary, dreary--who would live in such a place? Who
would put up an apartment house for people of mediocre means in this
neighborhood?

But when he reached the street, he saw that it was humpy and
cobblestoned, the cobbling badly patched, and that all the buildings
were like this one--gray-faced, hulking, ugly. There was not a
building he recognized--not a stick or stone of the _Himmlerstrasse_
with its fresh cement roadway and its sapling trees growing along
the sidewalk. And yet he knew he must be on the exact spot where the
_Himmlerstrasse_ had been--was--and he could not quite understand.

He began to walk in the direction of _Unter Den Linden_. He was far
from sure he could reach it on foot, in his condition, but he would
pass through the most familiar parts of the city, and could perhaps get
some inkling of what had happened.
