
He had suspected that the probability world his apparatus could most
easily adjust him for would be one in which Germany had lost the war.
That was a large, dramatic difference, and though he had refined his
work as well as he could, any first model of any equipment was bound to
be relatively insensitive.

But as he walked along, he found himself chilled and repelled by what
he saw.

Nothing was the same. Nothing. Even the layout of the streets had
changed a little. There were new buildings everywhere--new buildings
of a style and workmanship that had made them old in atmosphere the
day they were completed. It was the kind of total reconstruction that
he had no doubt the builders stubbornly proclaimed was "Good as New,"
because to say it was as good as the old Berlin would have been to
invite bitter smiles.

The people in the streets were grim, gray-faced, and shoddy. They
stared blankly at him and his suit, and once a dumpy woman carrying
a string bag full of lumpy packages turned to her similar companion
and muttered as he passed that he looked like an American with his
extravagant clothes.

The phrase frightened him. What kind of war had it been, that there
would still be Americans to be hated in Berlin in 1958? How long could
it possibly have lasted, to account for so many old buildings gone?
What had pounded Germany so cruelly? And yet even the "new" buildings
were genuinely some years old. Why an American? Why not an Englishman
or Frenchman?

He walked the gray streets, looking with a numb sense of settling
shock at this grim Berlin. He saw men in shapeless uniform caps, brown
trousers, cheap boots and sleazy blue shirts. They wore armbands with
_Volkspolizei_ printed on them. Some of them had not bothered to shave
this morning or to dress in fresh uniforms. The civilians looked
at them sidelong and then pretended not to have seen them. For an
undefinable but well-remembered reason, Professor Kempfer slipped by
them as inconspicuously as possible.

He grappled at what he saw with the dulled resources of his overtired
intellect, but there was no point of reference with which to begin. He
even wondered if perhaps the war was somehow still being fought, with
unimaginable alliances and unthinkable antagonists, with all resources
thrown into a brutal, dogged struggle from which all hope of both
defeat and victory were gone, and only endless straining effort loomed
up from the future.

Then he turned the corner and saw the stubby military car, and soldiers
in baggy uniforms with red stars on their caps. They were parked
under a weatherbeaten sign which read, in German above a few lines
in unreadable Cyrillic characters: _Attention! You Are Leaving the
U.S.S.R. Zone of Occupation. You Are Entering the American Zone of
Occupation. Show Your Papers._

God in heaven! he thought, recoiling. The Bolsheviks. And he was on
their side of the line. He turned abruptly, but did not move for
an instant. The skin of his face felt tight. Then he broke into a
stumbling walk, back the way he had come.

He had not come into this world blindly. He had not dared bring any
goods from his apartment, of course. Not with Frau Ritter to observe
him. Nor had he expected that his Reichsmarks would be of any use. He
had provided for this by wearing two diamond-set rings. He had expected
to have to walk down to the jewelry district before he could begin to
settle into this world, but he had expected no further difficulty.

He had expected Germany to have lost the war. Germany had lost another
war within his lifetime, and fifteen years later it would have taken
intense study for a man in his present position to detect it.

Professor Kempfer had thought it out, slowly, systematically. He had
not thought that a Soviet checkpoint might lie between him and the
jewelry district.
