
It was growing cold, as the afternoon settled down. It had not been as
warm a day to begin with, he suspected, as it had been in his Berlin.
He wondered how it might be, that Germany's losing a war could change
the weather, but the important thing was that he was shivering. He was
beginning to attract attention not only for his suit but for his lack
of a coat.

He had now no place to go, no place to stay the night, no way of
getting food. He had no papers, and no knowledge of where to get them
or what sort of maneuver would be required to keep him safe from
arrest. If anything could save him from arrest. By Russians.

Professor Kempfer began to walk with dragging steps, his body sagging
and numb. More and more of the passersby were looking at him sharply.
They might well have an instinct for a hunted man. He did not dare look
at the occasional policeman.

He was an old man. He had run today, and shaken with nervous
anticipation, and finished fifteen years' work, and it had all been a
nightmarish error. He felt his heart begin to beat unnaturally in his
ears, and he felt a leaping flutter begin in his chest. He stopped,
and swayed, and then he forced himself to cross the sidewalk so he
could lean against a building. He braced his back and bent his knees a
little, and let his hands dangle at his sides.

The thought came to him that there was an escape for him into one more
world. His shoulder-blades scraped a few centimeters downward against
the wall.

There were people watching him. They ringed him in at a distance of
about two meters, looking at him with almost childish curiosity. But
there was something about them that made Professor Kempfer wonder at
the conditions that could produce such children. As he looked back at
them, he thought that perhaps they all wanted to help him--that would
account for their not going on about their business. But they did not
know what sort of complications their help might bring to them--except
that there would certainly be complications. So none of them approached
him. They gathered around him, watching, in a crowd that would
momentarily attract a _volkspolizier_.

He looked at them dumbly, breathing as well as he could, his palms flat
against the wall. There were stocky old women, round-shouldered men,
younger men with pinched faces, and young girls with an incalculable
wisdom in their eyes. And there was a bird-like older woman, coming
quickly along the sidewalk, glancing at him curiously, then hurrying
by, skirting around the crowd....

There was one possibility of his escape to this world that Professor
Kempfer had not allowed himself to consider. He pushed himself away
from the wall, scattering the crowd as though by physical force, and
lurched toward the passing woman.

"_Marthe!_"

She whirled, her purse flying to the ground. Her hand went to her
mouth. She whispered, through her knuckles: "Jochim ... Jochim...." He
clutched her, and they supported each other. "Jochim ... the American
bombers killed you in Hamburg ... yesterday I sent money to put flowers
on your grave ... Jochim...."

"It was a mistake. It was all a mistake. Marthe ... we have found each
other...."
