
From a distance, she had not changed very much at all. Watching her
move about the room as he lay, warm and clean, terribly tired, in her
bed, he thought to himself that she had not aged half as much as he.
But when she bent over him with the cup of hot soup in her hand, he saw
the sharp lines in her face, around her eyes and mouth, and when she
spoke he heard the dry note in her voice.

How many years? he thought. How many years of loneliness and grief?
_When_ had the Americans bombed Hamburg? How? What kind of aircraft
could bomb Germany from bases in the Western Hemisphere?

They had so much to explain to each other. As she worked to make him
comfortable, the questions flew between them.

"It was something I stumbled on. The theory of probability worlds--of
alternate universes. Assuming that the characteristic would be a
difference in atomic vibration--minute, you understand; almost
infinitely minute--assuming that somewhere in the gross universe every
possible variation of every event _must_ take place--then if some means
could be found to alter the vibratory rate within a field, then any
object in that field would automatically become part of the universe
corresponding to that vibratory rate....

"Marthe, I can bore you later. Tell me about _Hamburg_. Tell me how we
lost the war. Tell me about Berlin."

He listened while she told him how their enemies had ringed them
in--how the great white wastes of Russia had swallowed their men, and
the British fire bombers had murdered children in the night. How the
Wehrmacht fought, and fought, and smashed their enemies back time after
time, until all the best soldiers were dead. And how the Americans,
with their dollars, had poured out countless tons of equipment to make
up for their inability to fight. How, at the last, the vulture fleets
of bombers had rumbled inexhaustibly across the sky, killing, killing,
killing, until all the German homes and German families had been
destroyed. And how now the Americans, with their hellish bomb that had
killed a hundred thousand Japanese civilians, now bestrode the world
and tried to bully it, with their bombs and their dollars, into final
submission.

How? Professor Kempfer thought. How could such a thing have happened?

Slowly, he pieced it together, mortified to find himself annoyed
when Marthe interrupted with constant questions about his Berlin and
especially about his equipment.

And, pieced together, it still refused to seem logical.

How could anyone believe that Goering, in the face of all good
sense, would turn the Luftwaffe from destroying the R.A.F. bases to
a ridiculous attack on English cities? How could anyone believe that
German electronics scientists could persistently refuse to believe
ultra-shortwave radar was practical--refuse to believe it even when the
Allied hunter planes were finding surfaced submarines at night with
terrible accuracy?

What kind of nightmare world was this, with Germany divided and the
Russians in control of Europe, in control of Asia, reaching for the
Middle East that no Russian, not even the dreaming czars, had seriously
expected ever to attain?

"Marthe--we must get out of this place. We must. I will have to rebuild
my machine." It would be incredibly difficult. Working clandestinely as
he must, scraping components together--even now that the work had been
done once, it would take several years.

Professor Kempfer looked inside himself to find the strength he would
need. And it was not there. It simply was gone, used up, burnt out,
eaten out.

"Marthe, you will have to help me. I must take some of your strength.
I will need so many things--identity papers, some kind of work so we
can eat, money to buy equipment...." His voice trailed away. It was so
much, and there was so little time left for him. Yet, somehow, they
must do it.

A hopelessness, a feeling of inevitable defeat, came over him. It was
this world. It was poisoning him.

Marthe's hand touched his brow. "Hush, Jochim. Go to sleep. Don't
worry. Everything is all right, now. My poor Jochim, how terrible you
look! But everything will be all right. I must go back to work, now. I
am hours late already. I will come back as soon as I can. Go to sleep,
Jochim."

He let his breath out in a long, tired sigh. He reached up and touched
her hand. "Marthe...."
