
He awoke to Marthe's soft urging. Before he opened his eyes he had
taken her hand from his shoulder and clasped it tightly. Marthe let the
contact linger for a moment, then broke it gently.

"Jochim--my superior at the Ministry is here to see you."

He opened his eyes and sat up. "Who?"

"Colonel Lubintsev, from the People's Government Ministerium, where I
work. He would like to speak to you." She touched him reassuringly.
"Don't worry. It's all right. I spoke to him--I explained. He's not
here to arrest you. He's waiting in the other room."

He looked at Marthe dumbly. "I--I must get dressed," he managed to say
after a while.

"No--no, he wants you to stay in bed. He knows you're exhausted. He
asked me to assure you it would be all right. Rest in bed. I'll get
him."

Professor Kempfer sank back. He looked unseeingly up at the ceiling
until he heard the sound of a chair being drawn up beside him, and then
he slowly turned his head.

Colonel Lubintsev was a stocky, ruddy-faced man with gray bristles on
his scalp. He had an astonishingly boyish smile. "Doctor Professor
Kempfer, I am honored to meet you," he said. "Lubintsev, Colonel,
assigned as advisor to the People's Government Ministerium." He
extended his hand gravely, and Professor Kempfer shook it with a
conscious effort.

"I am pleased to make your acquaintance," Professor Kempfer mumbled.

"Not at all, Doctor Professor. Not at all. Do you mind if I smoke?"

"Please." He watched the colonel touch a lighter to a long cigarette
while Marthe quickly found a saucer for an ashtray. The colonel nodded
his thanks to Marthe, puffed on the cigarette, and addressed himself to
Professor Kempfer while Marthe sat down on a chair against the far wall.

"I have inspected your dossier," Colonel Lubintsev said. "That is,"
with a smile, "our dossier on your late counterpart. I see you fit
the photographs as well as could be expected. We will have to make a
further identification, of course, but I rather think that will be a
formality." He smiled again. "I am fully prepared to accept your story.
It is too fantastic not to be true. Of course, sometimes foreign agents
choose their cover stories with that idea in mind, but not in this
case, I think. If what has happened to you could happen to any man, our
dossier indicates Jochim Kempfer might well be that man." Again, the
smile. "In any counterpart."

"You have a dossier," Professor Kempfer said.

Colonel Lubintsev's eyebrows went up in a pleased grin. "Oh, yes.
When we liberated your nation, we knew exactly what scientists were
deserving of our assistance in their work, and where to find them. We
had laboratories, project agendas, living quarters--everything!--all
ready for them. But I must admit, we did not think we would ever be
able to accommodate you."

"But now you can."

"Yes!" Once more, Colonel Lubintsev smiled like a little boy with great
fun in store. "The possibilities of your device are as infinite as the
universe! Think of the enormous help to the people of your nation, for
example, if they could draw on machine tools and equipment from such
alternate places as the one you have just left." Colonel Lubintsev
waved his cigarette. "Or if, when the Americans attack us, we can
transport bombs from a world where the revolution is an accomplished
fact, and have them appear in North America in this."

Professor Kempfer sat up in bed. "Marthe! Marthe, why have you done
this to me?"

"Hush, Jochim," she said. "Please. Don't tire yourself. I have done
nothing to you. You will have care, now. We will be able to live
together in a nice villa, and you will be able to work, and we will be
together."

"Marthe--"

She shook her head, her lips pursed primly. "Please, Jochim. Times have
changed a great deal, here. I explained to the Colonel that your head
was probably still full of the old Nazi propaganda. He understands.
You will learn to see it for what it was. And you will help put the
Americans back in their place." Her eyes filled suddenly with tears.
"All the years I went to visit your grave as often as I could. All the
years I paid for flowers, and all the nights I cried for you."

"But I am _here_, Marthe! I am here! I am not dead."

"Jochim, Jochim," she said gently. "Am I to have had all my grief for
nothing?"

"I have brought a technical expert with me," Colonel Lubintsev went on
as though nothing had happened. "If you will tell him what facilities
you will need, we can begin preliminary work immediately." He rose to
his feet. "I will send him in. I myself must be going." He put out
his cigarette, and extended his hand. "I have been honored, Doctor
Professor Kempfer."

"Yes," Professor Kempfer whispered. "Yes. Honored." He raised his hand,
pushed it toward the colonel's, but could not hold it up long enough to
reach. It fell back to the coverlet, woodenly, and Professor Kempfer
could not find the strength to move it. "Goodbye."

He heard the colonel walk out with a few murmured words for Marthe. He
was quite tired, and he heard only a sort of hum.

He turned his head when the technical expert came in. The man was all
eagerness, all enthusiasm:

"Jochim! This is amazing! Perhaps I should introduce myself--I worked
with your counterpart during the war--we were quite good friends--I am
Georg Tanzler. Jochim! How _are_ you!"

Professor Kempfer looked up. His lips twisted. "I think I am going away
again, Georg," he whispered.

