
Otah came, and Lak and one other, and together they brought Obe back. No
one made remark on the slaying; it was enough that Obe was here! And
when Gral came forward at the gorging to take the bringer's share, he
merely took and retired, disdaining the great show of prowess and
exaggeration which the others used to demonstrate their kill. But he saw
that Gor-wah, the Old One, was pleased. Even Otah the Thrower-of-Stones
looked at him with envy; it was not often they had Obe the Great Bear;
only twice before had it happened, and both times it was Otah who
brought.

Gral gorged voluptuously that night. This too was new to his experience,
and this he liked. But newer still was the thing he did not like, the
thing that continued to gnaw and nag and would not let him sleep.

And next morning, with the valley still gray and murky before the dawn
and damp with bitter cold, Gral was gone in advance of the others. He
clambered down to the river and there he pursued his way--far along
toward the place where it widened into shallows. No thought of bringing
today! Instead he searched. He searched the rocky shallows as the sun
came shafting, and he was still searching later as it climbed high.

He found the place at last, where the stones were plentiful and of
proper size. There he paused; the thing was still angry and prodding
within him; Gral could not have known that this "thing-that-prodded" was
not anger but a churning impatience, a burning nameless need--that he
was in very truth a prototype, the first in the realm of pure research!

But he applied it, knowing remotely what he must do. It was long; it was
irksome; he ached all through with the effort but still he persisted.
Until at last, from all the stones in the shallows, he had gathered a
dozen that pleased him.

These he seized eagerly. He spread them out; he examined; he grunted and
grimaced and paused in perplexity. It was difficult to choose when each
might do! But he chose, weighing each in his hand before discarding,
until finally _one_ remained.

He grunted his pleasure, knowing purpose now. The vines! Again he
selected carefully. _Tight_, said the thing-that-prodded, _it must be
tight or you will have only a throw-stone_.

And so began the long task of arranging stone to shaft, as he brought
the vine round and round again. It was crude; his fingers were clumsy
and unaccustomed; the vine tangled and tore, and there was no way of
fastening. But with each failure he found new ways, until at last it was
done.

It was done! A thing of extended strength and weight, at once so
wondrous that Gral could only place it before him and stare. He felt a
pulsing at his throat, his thoughts went leaping. Obe the Great Bear!
Now he could bring Obe many times! Even Otah the Thrower-of-Stones would
be in awe!

Gral lifted the thing of his creation ... and just a little way distant,
his glance caught the bole of a tree. _Now this will be Obe the Great
Bear_ ... then Gral leapt forward, arm outflung in the arc he
remembered.

Truly and without effort the weight went to the mark. It made impact
that jarred him from arm to shoulder, but this he did not mind because
his weapon's edge brought a great gaping wound to the weathered bole.

_... the first sound of isolate words across a wire. The initial shock
of mushroom-shape above an atoll. The fierce clutch of a weighted shaft
newly fashioned ... man stands always_ FOR A MOMENT _in awe of what man
has wrought._

       *       *       *

For a moment only. And so Gral stood stark in his moment of awe, truly
frightened as he visioned what such a blow might have done to Obe. But
Gral was truly man, truly prototype; for the time of one deep breath he
felt it, then awe and fright were gone as he exulted.

Once more he brought the shaft _up_ in smooth swing and _down_ in the
arc....

Alas for Gral--alas for research. Alas for all the effort and
application and the prodding-thing within. It was Gral's destiny yet to
know that a mere day's effort was only the beginning.

For his second mighty swing did not reach the bole-bark. It reached
nothing but air. He felt a sudden lightness as the stone fled from
shaft, and he was left holding a stick trailing vines at the end.

Undaunted, he tried again, and again it happened--the stone went
plummeting. A third time he tried, and a fourth. He chose the more
pliant vines and strove to make them stay, sought a new way to fasten.
The stone would not stay.

Gral mourned, and from the mourning came anger and then a bitterness
that rose to blind him. For the rest of that day he tried--he could not
have counted the times. A factor was missing--dimly he knew that. The
sun was dull red along the valley when he desisted; his hands were raw
and bleeding, and seeing that, a sound rose in his throat like grating
gravel.

Grimly, he buried his stone there beneath the bole and made his way back
to the great ledge. His share of Obe would last yet a day or two. The
thought of food was only fleeting, because the anger was still inside
him, larger now, demanding now ... that thing-that-prodded.
