
Obe was gone at last, both Gral's share and all the rest. Three days
were gone and Gral did not try to bring again. But each day he went from
the ledge in advance of the others, he went in a hunger he did not
heed--to the place of the buried stone.

On the third day he thought that Otah followed, keeping discreetly
behind; but he could not be sure. This was not Otah's usual direction.
And later, on the far shore across the shallows he saw one of Kurho's
tribe from Far End. It was not often that Kurho's people foraged this
far, and Gral could not say how long the man must have stood there bold
and brazen. When next he looked up, the fellow was gone.

Ordinarily he would have reported this to Gor-wah, but the incident was
soon forgotten. He continued doggedly with shaft and stone. It was
something wild and febrile that drove him now, and he could not have
wondered at his own incredible quixotism--he was a million years removed
from that! But inevitably his synapses took hold, the neuronic links
grooved, and to Gral one thought emerged: _the vines would never do_.

And so he came to know where the missing factor lay. He knew it dully
and was helpless.

More than helpless, he was hungry. It came with a great gnawing need. On
the fifth day it was _Otah_ who noticed, and more out of contempt than
pity tossed him the remnants of a wild-dog he had brought: the portion
was little more than stripped bones and sinew, but Gral accepted without
question, crawled to his place on the ledge and partially assuaged his
hunger....

_The ways of discovery are most wondrous--yet who will dare to say they
take precedence over the wondrous ways of the stomach? And the ways are
ironic; is it not conceivable that the two should align in devious
fruition?_ For Gral found answer, not in his groping hands, but tangled
about his clumsy feet!

       *       *       *

The sun came high and hot. Gral emerged from his sleep-place on the
ledge, faint and hungry but knowing he must try yet again. He took a
step, his feet tangled, and growling deep he reached down and tore at a
tough twining substance.

Sinews. Sinews stripped bare by his own hunger, all that Otah and others
had tossed him these past days; they were taut and clinging now,
unresilient, like the vines of the young trees and yet strangely unlike.

_Unlike!_ Gral stared, as his throat went pulsing. He reached out and
touched; one had twined about a rock, was now so fast that his fingers
could not cause it to move. For a long time he crouched, perplexed,
growling deep as his fingers explored. He glanced up at the sun, and
then back, and with that glance two things came together with searing
shock....

For the very first time, man--a Pleistocene man--had made a clear
cerebral distinction of cause and effect.

Gral arose. There was a wild new urgency. Quickly he searched and he
found, across all the great ledge, sinews from the gorging which the sun
had not yet touched. Some among the tribe stared with immobile contempt,
thinking Gral the scavenger was yet hungry. But Gral gathered quickly,
and departed, and was soon at the far place by the great bole, where he
retrieved his stone and set feverishly to work.

Indeed it was not like the vines! It was easy now, but he was doubly
thorough; he made his fingers be strong as he followed the pattern he
knew so well. The sinews held, they held! His part done at last, he went
out from the trees and placed his shaft where the sun's hot stroke could
reach.

And this was perhaps hardest of all--the waiting. Most of that day he
crouched and waited and watched, as the sun's work was done; that great
bright orb, his ally; he had known times when it was beneficent and
times when it was cruel, but now in his need Gral's thoughts were
kindly.

Soon it became as if his own kind thoughts and the sun's hot strength
were one. The thing-that-prodded now was different, now it outpoured,
gracious to meet his need. He could not have known that this was prayer!
And so, by degree and small degree Gral saw the sinews grasp and
tighten.

       *       *       *

Not until the sun was low, at valley's Far End, did he dare reach out
and take his shaft and put it to test. But already he knew! The stone
held, and it held, and would continue to hold after many tries. He had
fashioned a thing and it was wondrous--his own sole possession--a weapon
beyond anything the valley-people had dreamed of--and it was his alone.

A stirring of vague alarm made him pause. He growled deep. The
thing-that-prodded churned in a new way, a cunning way, and once again
Gral was prototype. This thing must be kept secret! Not yet would he
share--not until he became known as Gral-the-Bringer!

_... he could not have known. Could not have known that this thing he
wrought spelled at once Beginning and End: that no such shocking
departure remains long sole-possessed, either shaft or fire or
mushroom-shape: that with each great thing of man's devising comes
question and doubt and challenge and often disaster...._

Or knowing, would not have cared.

[Illustration]
