
So now he was known as Gral-the-Bringer! He went alone each day, taking
throw-stones which he discarded in favor of his new weapon from its
place of hiding. He brought the wild-dogs for a time, but soon he
disdained them. Three times more he brought Obe the Great Bear, but
would not demonstrate his method of kill. Sometimes he scaled the
valley-rim to the great plain, where he slew the three-toed horses whose
flesh was sweet and different.

And each time at the gorging Otah watched him--watched sometimes sullen
and brooding, sometimes with secret knowing.

And then came a day when _Otah_ brought Obe the Bear. Three times in as
many days he brought Obe, and on the third time he brought back also the
shaft-with-stone, bearing it boldly to make sure that Gral and all the
others saw.

With half snarl and half wail, Gral leaped to seize it. Otah might have
crushed him with a blow, but Otah waited, looking at him fully. Gral's
snarl died in his throat. This was not the weapon he had hidden, but
another! Otah had found and copied.

"See this!" Otah grunted. "I slew Obe with this!" And he demonstrated to
all the tribe. He was still angry, facing Gral, but he gave credit.
"_Gral_ used it first. Gral is greatest among us! But if Gral can use,
Otah can use--we will all use!"

He turned to Gor-wah the Old One, and said in the language of
monosyllable and gesture: "We must have Council!"

There was Council, and the truth was out. Gral held back nothing in his
telling. Gor-wah listened and nodded and grunted, his brow furrowed and
he growled deep in his throat.

"A weapon of great magic," Gor-wah pronounced, and he prodded with his
fingers at it, almost afraid to touch.

"Arh-h-h!" echoed the males. "A weapon of great magic!"

"Let us have many such," Otah repeated with growl and gesture. "The
tribe of Gor-wah will be greatest in all the valley!"

Again Gor-wah grunted, shook his head slowly. "The tribe of Gor-wah
seeks only food and peace. This we have. We do well without such a
weapon."

"Arh-h," echoed the males. "We do well without."

Gral felt helpless, listening. All attention was now upon Otah and the
Old One. "But we will use only for food and peace," Otah pursued
sullenly. "Such was my meaning!"

Gor-wah rose, trembling. "Meaning? I will give you meaning. Kurho's
tribe at Far End! Already they have taken the lesser tribes. Each year
they come in bold insolence, and only the river separates; in time they
mean to take the whole valley. Kurho has declared it!" He spread his
hands. "Never again will we know peace, if Kurho learns the way of such
a weapon!"

There was pause, a restless unease. And again it was Otah who growled
boldly, touching the weapon: "Such is the reason for many of these. Let
us make them, and none will dare to come!"

"None will dare!" echoed the Council. But there were both those who said
it strong, and those who said in doubt.

Now it was plain that even Gor-wah was in doubt. He was old and he had
known this time would come, the time when another took the tribe, and
that one would be Otah. But now he stood straight and made
pronouncement. "I say no! The risk is too great. You, Otah--and you,
Gral--you will destroy this weapon. It must not be used again!"
