
Of course it was never done. Otah also knew that he must take the tribe,
and they looked to him now. Soon Lok had the weapon, then Mai-ak and
most of the others, as day by day Gral instructed them in the making.
But they used with caution! Otah reminded them always of the Old One's
words, though none of the Far End tribe had been seen near the river for
many days now.

Until Mai-ak returned from a journey, to announce he had encountered one
of Kurho's tribe. "We exchanged insults. I invited him to come close,"
Mai-ak explained with amusing gesture, "but the fellow would not. He saw
my weapon! I think he would have given all his throw-stones to possess
it!"

Otah was not pleased. He would have admonished, except that Mai-ak told
a story well; besides, Mai-ak was a great hunter.

But there came another such day, and then others. First Lok reported and
then Mai-ak again. The reports became frequent. Kurho's men were forever
near, watching in silence this new weapon in the hands of the Gor-wah
tribe across the river.

And then Mai-ak brought a message ... there had been another encounter,
no insults this time but rather a sullen understanding. Kurho was aware
of the new weapon; it made his own people uneasy and restless; such a
thing at loose in the valley could only spell threat to all peoples!
But, if it was to be, then what the tribe of Gor-wah devised Kurho's
tribe would also devise. They would devise more and better!

Otah listened, growled in anger. "Kurho says this? Kurho, who has
boasted that he will take the whole valley?" Then he paused and
considered sensibly. "Mai-ak, take answer. You will say that we go in
peace. Say that never do we intend to cross the river. And say
also"--Otah paused, groping--"say also that we shall be ready for any
who do choose to cross!"

The Old One nodded approval, but no one saw; and no one saw the dark
furrow of doubt like a shadow of doom across his face.

"Kurho speaks big," sneered a young one, new in Council. "We have heard
it before, always it is Kurho's tribe who is greatest in every deed...."
He spat in contempt.

       *       *       *

Days were gone, endless days without incident. But the reports came
in--a mere trickle at first, and then in great tide. Kurho's tribe had
indeed devised. Their weapon had been observed! Dak returned one day in
high excitement, stumbling across the ledge from a long day's journey.

"Kurho has devised better! We bring Obe the Bear, but they have now
slain the great-toothed one. I saw it, I swear! They slew him easily!"
He gasped for breath, then gained his feet and gave them eloquent
gesture of what he had seen.

There could be no doubt. Kurho now had a weapon much more facile, more
deadly.

Otah accepted grimly. Now it was he who must prove! He went to work at
once, he and Gral, devising a weapon to meet the threat--more
sharp-edged and deadly, of greater length and balance. It took days. And
days more to seek out the place of the great-toothed ones. Not one but
_three_ were slain, and it was made certain the word reached Kurho.

But now Otah knew. He knew and was helpless. A frightful thing had been
launched and there could be no turning; nothing now but the constant
fear, the trap without end, the perilous thing above all their heads ...
and the waiting.

Kurho also waited. True, one thing remained to temper the distrust:
sporadic communication had been established, a thing new and yet heavy
with pretense, which again like a serpent at its tail spelled mutual
distrust. But it was there, begrudging, and all the smaller tribes knew
of it too--those scattered ones who were little more than clans. All the
peoples of the valley watched and waited, aware of this thing between
the two great tribes of Kurho and Otah.

"It is better that we should talk, even endlessly, than to use such
weapons tribe against tribe!" Such was Otah's word to those who
grumbled and those who feared, and there was much to indicate that such
was Kurho's feeling too.

Indeed it appeared to be so! For the first time, Kurho relaxed his
borders at Far End. Occasionally the Otah tribesmen were permitted to
enter, welcomed without suspicion--a thing unprecedented! Similarly,
select members from the Kurho tribe were accepted beyond the river; they
displayed certain prowesses new to the Otah tribe, for in many ways
these were a strange and fantastic people.

It seemed to be a beginning. Word went out in secret and still other
word returned, in which Mai-ak played a great part. And so, after scores
of days it was done: there would be a time of understanding; Kurho,
himself, would cross the river to go in person among Otah's people! When
this was done, Otah would also cross the river to observe the things at
Far End!

But now growlings arose which even Otah could not contain. Kurho should
not be welcomed! Kurho must not be trusted! Was not this the man who
already had suppressed the minor tribes? Had he not flaunted his aim of
one day taking the whole valley?

Nevertheless, Kurho came. He came in all his boast and arrogance. The
time was not festive--he was made to feel that--but what Kurho felt he
did not show. Extravagant point was made that he should see all that he
wished! Across all the great series of ledges he was taken, both high
and low and length and breadth, to observe the abundance and well-being
and extent of the Otah tribe. Through all the near valley he was shown,
even to the places of great hunting, that he might see how the tribe of
Otah prospered in the Bringing.

Through it all, Kurho made a token show of interest; he twice lost his
temper in boast against boast, but he was more often a blunt enigma. He
saw much and said little. Those times when he did speak, so extravagant
were his grunt and gesture that much was lost.

When Kurho departed at last for Far End, he had implanted a feeling of
frustration and one thing more--the disturbing thought that not all of
his own boasts were idle!

       *       *       *

And now came the time for Otah to cross. It was done so quietly that not
many knew he was gone, but soon the reports came: Otah had been received
with great clamor and curiosity by the Kurho people, and accorded much
honor! Aside from that, the result was much the same, as Otah saw much
and said little and did not once lose his temper. Kurho persisted in his
boast and claim, and it was rumored that the two leaders had gone so far
as to discuss the weapons!

Rumor was true. Otah returned from Far End and immediately called
Council, even as Kurho was calling Council. Little had been gained,
little proven; the perilous thing was still there, that monstrous means
of death that might come in a moment of temper or reprisal to either
tribe. Alas, such weapons were not easily relinquished--and who would be
first?

Plainly, the way would now be slow and heavy with suspicion, but a
method to abate such a threat must soon be formulated.

On _that_ Otah and Kurho were agreed!
