
A matter of minutes, now. Both Kurho and Mai-ak knew it. The latter had
glimpsed Otah's destruction, and with wild abandon sought to rally his
men into the area.

There was no longer an area. There was clash and groan and rush and
retreat, there was dark endless rock and a darker sky, from which the
very stars seemed to recoil in darkest wonderment at man's senseless
assault. The valley-rim yawned, and there Mai-ak made his stand and made
it well.

He was unaware that Kurho was no more--that the man of boast was at this
very moment a quivering, protoplasmic lump splattered across a dark
crevice. A random weapon in a frantic hand had proved to be no respecter
of person. Nor did it matter! Decimated as they were, enough of the
enemy got through. Once propelled in the insane purpose there could be
no stopping, as they descended upon Otah's people who huddled in the
caves....

For weeks, they had been told that when it came it would be from above,
sudden and savage without defense or recourse. Few had believed, or
bothered to plot the route to safety. Would not these issues be
resolved? Had not their caves been always safe and secure?

Now there was no time for belief or wonder. Within minutes none of
Otah's tribe were alive, neither women nor children. Gor-wah the Old One
remained, having failed in his exhortations; now he stood quite still,
erect and waiting, with arms outflung as the weapons came swarming, and
when that final blow fell the expression upon his mouth might have been
a grimace or might have been a smile....

Nor did the others escape, those at Far End who also huddled and waited
and would not believe. Their caves at the valley-floor were even less
secure. Whether it was blinding hate or the bitter dregs of expediency,
for Mai-ak and his remnants there was only one recourse now. It had been
deeply ingrained!

Grimly they pursued the way, automaton-like, unresponsive now to horror
or any emotive. And once again, within the hour the weapons fell.

It was swift and it was thorough.

Methodical. Merciless. Complete.
