
It will not be said here when emotive-response returned. Does one return
from a horror all-encompassing, or seek to requite the unrequited? Does
one yearn for a Way that is no more when deadening shock has wiped it
out?

The season of thaw came, and again the great cold and once more the
thaw. Both Obe the Bear and the great saber-cats were at large across
the valley, and for those few who remained the bring was not easy now.
There was more dangerous prey!

Lone clansman encountered clansman across his path, and there was
furtive slinking. Each went silently alone and returned alone to his
place of hiding. Bellies growled, but none dared use his weapon except
in secret.

Perhaps a few, some isolate few remembered that time of chaos a season
ago--but it was fleeting recall at best, as somatic responses rose to
blot it out.

It was not to be forever! One thing remained, unasked and unbeknownst,
grooved with synaptic permanence in their burgeoning brains. _This was
neither beginning nor end: for though Otah's Tribe was gone, bellies
still growled. Kurho's Tribe was no more, but the weapons yet remained._

_There could be no beginning or end--for would not new things come,
means and methods and ways of devising so long as man remained? Was not
this The Way?_

Such were Mai-ak's thoughts at the time of the next thaw; when he felt
the thing-that-prodded that would not let him be, and his anger became
stubborn resolve; when day after day he bent the young saplings, and
found a way at last to fasten the sinew.

When he pulled, finally, pulled with all his strength, and with great
gloating saw his shaft go outward to a distance never yet conceived....


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was first published in _Amazing Stories_ May 1961.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note. The
    tribal names Lok, Lak and Dak, although possible typesetting
    errors, remain as printed.



