
Ewing hovered nervously, white fingers clenching and unclenching,
reaching out, now and then, to touch the album on the dusty table-top.
"I know you are a busy man, Mr. Barrett," he said, "so I'll come at once
to the point."

Joey relaxed as much as he could in the old chair. "I should tell you
first, Mr. Ewing, that I'm not a writer. I'm a photographer. My editor
thought maybe you and me would talk the same language."

Ewing bobbed his head up and down. "Excellent. Excellent." He pulled up
a small chair. "Believe me, Mr. Barrett, I hesitated a very long while
before I decided to make my discovery public."

Joey disguised a grin. "What finally decided you?"

Ewing closed his eyes. "I'm not well. Heart. Most unreliable. Doctor
tells me I may ... may die ... at any time."

"I see."

"But, before I die," the old man said, leaning forward again, "I must
share my secret." He seemed to have difficulty in finding the words he
sought. "It's ... it's so extraordinary, Mr. Barrett, that I've been
afraid to divulge it." He gave a sad shake of his head. "People today
are so unwilling to accept the unusual."

Joey writhed inwardly. This was worse than he had thought. He would make
Nugent pay. "Mr. Nugent said something about your photographing another
dimension," he prompted.

The old man pushed himself to his feet. "It was accidental. I've dabbled
in amateur photography for years." He limped over to his camera. "Not
only took pictures--developed my own." He paused and looked very
directly at Joey. "About six years ago, I began experimenting with a new
developer."

Ewing's eyes were disturbing. Joey looked away. "You had used commercial
developers before?"

"Yes." Ewing gripped the camera. "I wanted a developer that would give a
more sharply defined image. I tried fifty different formulae--never
quite achieving what I had in mind."

Joey lit a cigarette. "You must have spent a lot of time on it."

"I had retired. I live alone here. No other interests." The phrases came
in little gasps, as if Ewing had to force the words between his lips.
"Made no progress. And then, I tried Formula #53."

The pause indicated Joey was expected to react. "Formula #53?"

Ewing moved back to the light. "My fifty-third experiment. Radical
departure from commercial developers."

"It succeeded?"

"It succeeded, Mr. Barrett, but not in the way I had imagined." The
fish-white hands rested on the photo album. "I developed some film in
Formula #53 and received the shock of my life." His voice was a whisper.
"The pictures on the negative were NOT the pictures I had taken."

He paused to watch the effect on Barrett. Joey scratched his ear. "You
took one set of pictures and the negatives you got were of another set?"

"I know what you're thinking," Ewing said. "What I thought at first:
that I'd gotten hold of the wrong film. But that wasn't the answer. The
same thing happened again and again. Whenever I used Formula #53 as my
developer, I produced a strange set of pictures."

Joey stood up nervously. The old boy was crazier than he had first
guessed. Humoring him seemed the only answer. "That's incredible."

Ewing nodded excitedly. "I thought I was losing my mind. But, slowly, I
began to realize what had happened."

"What?"

The old man sank into the chair by the table. "School of modern
philosophers ... teaches all time is co-existent."

Joey felt almost sorry for the old boy. He was so much in earnest about
his crack-brained discovery. "Time ... co-existent?"

"Past, present, future--all simultaneous. Running along in parallel
dimensions."
