
From habit, Joey took the picture of the accident and delivered it to
Nugent. By the time he had developed his picture, he was beginning to
enjoy the knowledge that it was an exact duplicate of the photograph in
Ewing's album.

Only he and Ewing realized the power of Formula #53. It couldn't be
coincidence. The details were too exact. Ewing's explanation was the
only one possible. And that meant the old boy wasn't crazy. The formula
was all he insisted.

Such a formula could be a great force for good, the old man had said. In
the right hands. In the hands of Joey Barrett.

Joey decided to keep his secret. This was not a power to be shared with
Leslie Nugent or anyone else. So, when he faced his editor again, he was
careful to dismiss the Ewing interview with just the proper degree of
casualness.

"There's no doubt about it," he said. "Ewing's a crackpot."

Nugent scowled impatiently. "Even so...."

"I tell you, if we run the story he gave me, we'll be laughed out of
business." Joey watched Nugent closely.

"But surely as a human interest yarn," the editor protested, "we'd be
justified."

Joey shook his head. "He's an old crank, trying to build up his ego with
these phony claims."

Nugent leaned back. "There was absolutely no basis for his theory?"

"None." Joey laughed easily. "You should have seen the obvious trick
photos he tried to pass off as evidence. My advice is: forget Jason
Ewing."

There was a long pause. Then, Nugent nodded. "All right. Thanks, Joey."
He picked up a glossy of the accident. "You outdid yourself on this
one."

Joey sauntered to the door. "The master's touch," he called. "I'll hit
you for a raise later."

Satisfied that Nugent considered the Ewing story dead, Joey left the
paper and hurried to a pay-phone.

When Jason Ewing answered, there was a note of near-hysteria in his
voice. He seemed frightened by Joey's interest and was extremely
reluctant to give him another interview.

"I don't blame you for being irritated," Joey said. "I was very rude.
But look, Mr. Ewing, now I see I was wrong. We can't talk about it on
the phone. All I want is a chance to see you again. Maybe tomorrow?"

There was such a long pause that Joey thought Ewing had broken the
connection. Then, he heard the old man sigh.

"I ... I don't know what to say," Ewing faltered. "In the light of ...
of recent developments, I think it would be unwise to involve you, Mr.
Barrett."

Joey laughed. "Listen, this is the break of a lifetime for me. How about
tomorrow morning at nine?"

"Tomorrow." The one word was neither affirmation nor question.

But Joey chose to interpret it as agreement. "See you in the morning at
nine, Mr. Ewing," he said, and hung up quickly.
