
Joey slept little that night. He was up early, gulped a hasty breakfast,
and stood on the steps at Ewing's house at five minutes to nine.

Again, as on the day before, he had to ring the bell twice before the
door opened and the wrinkled face showed itself. He was shocked by the
change in Ewing. The man seemed much older and there was a haunting fear
in the blue eyes.

"It would have been wiser," the old man whispered, "if you had not come
here again--for us not to have met."

Joey was determined to be charming. He put his hand on the thin old arm
and gently pushed Ewing into the entry hall. "I don't blame you for
being bitter," he said, closing the door. "I was a fool yesterday."

Ewing pulled free and moved agitatedly into the living-room. Even the
morning sun made no impression on the shadows there.

The old man didn't look at Joey. "You were right," he said. "It would be
better to forget the formula."

Joey fought down his impatience. He tried to move smoothly, keep his
voice calm. "No. You mustn't think that. You can't be selfish. You said
yourself, Mr. Ewing, that this knowledge could do great good."

The quiet persuasiveness of Joey's approach seemed cause for further
alarm. "I said that, but since then ... I ... I see that it might also
do great harm."

He tottered away from Joey and slumped tiredly into the chair by the
table.

"Mr. Ewing," Joey said, following him, "yesterday I saw one of your
pictures come to life."

Ewing did not look up. "I know. The accident at the corner. I was afraid
you had seen it."

"Afraid!" Joey laughed. "That was the clincher." He leaned over the old
man. "Listen, Mr. Ewing, the second I saw that wreck, I realized what we
have in Formula #53. I want to help you make use of it--the proper use."

The old man shook his head. "I'm afraid," he whimpered.

Joey ignored the interruption. "We'll work this together. If we play it
smart, the sky's the limit. We can be millionaires. Name our own
prices." He laughed in his excitement. "They'll meet our demands when
they see what we've got to offer."

Ewing had slowly pushed himself to his feet. He regarded Joey with mixed
apprehension and disgust. "You ... you can't commercialize my
discovery," he protested. "I wouldn't permit the formula to be used for
personal gain."

"Not just MY gain. You and me together." Joey looked at the red-plush
photo album and rubbed his hands. "I'll bet we got pictures in that
album worth a hundred grand."

Abruptly, Ewing stepped past Joey and seized the album. He cradled it in
his arms. "That's out of the question." He tottered toward the
fireplace. "Mr. Barrett," he pleaded, "I beg you to go now."

Anger simmered in Joey--anger and frustration. "All right," he said,
forcing himself to be reasonable. "Those are your pictures." He faced
Ewing at the fireplace. "But if I take some, will you give me the
formula so I can develop them?"

Stubbornly, the old man shook his head.

"What IS the formula?" Joey demanded.

"I've never written it down." Ewing clutched the red-plush photo album
with one hand and gestured imploringly with the other. "Mr. Barrett,
every moment you stay here, you jeopardize us both. Leave now. Please.
Forget we ever met ... that you ever heard of Formula #53."

"Forget!" Joey's hands clenched and unclenched in mounting desperation.
"You can't start a guy on a thing like this, Ewing, and then tell him to
forget it!" For a long second, they stared at each other. Ewing was
breathing heavily and perspiration beaded the parchment face.
