The pole stars of the other planets cluster around Polaris and Octans,
but Uranus spins on a snobbishly different axis between Aldebaran and
Antares. The Bull is her coronet and the Scorpion her footstool. Dear
blowzy old bitch-planet, swollen and pale and cold, mad with your
Shakespearean moons, white-mottled as death from Venerean Plague,
spinning on your side like a poisoned pregnant cockroach, rolling
around the sun like a fat drunken floozie with green hair rolling on
the black floor of an infinite bar-room, what a sweet last view of the
Solar System you are for a cleancut young spaceman....

Grunfeld chopped off that train of thought short. He was young and
the First Interstellar War had snatched him up and now it was going
to pitch him and twenty other Joes out of the System on a fast curve
breaking around Uranus--and so what! He shivered to get a little heat
and then applied himself to the occulted star he was tracking through
_Prospero's_ bridge telescope. The star was a twentieth planetary
diameter into Uranus, the crosslines showed--a glint almost lost in
pale green. That meant its light was bulleting 1600 miles deep through
the seventh planet's thick hydrogen atmosphere, unless he were seeing
the star on a mirage trajectory--and at least its depth agreed with
the time since rim contact.

At 2000 miles he lost it. That should mean 2000 miles plus of hydrogen
soup above the methane ocean, an America-wide layer of gaseous gunk for
the captain to play the mad hero in with the fleet.

Grunfeld didn't think the captain wanted to play the mad hero. The
captain hadn't gone space-simple in any obvious way like Croker and
Ness. And he wasn't, like Jackson, a telepathy-racked visionary
entranced by the Enemy. Worry and responsibility had turned the
captain's face into a skull which floated in Grunfeld's imagination
when he wasn't actually seeing it, but the tired eyes deep-sunk in
the dark sockets were still cool and perhaps sane. But because of the
worry the captain always wanted to have the last bit of fact bearing
on the least likely maneuver, and two pieces of evidence were better
than one. Grunfeld found the next sizable star due to occult. Five-six
minutes to rim contact. He floated back a foot from the telescope,
stretching out his thin body in the plane of the ecliptic--strange how
he automatically assumed that orientation in free fall! He blinked and
blinked, then rested his eyes on the same planet he'd been straining
them on.

The pale greenish bulk of Uranus was centered in the big bridge
spaceshield against the black velvet dark and bayonet-bright stars, a
water-splotched and faded chartreuse tennis ball on the diamond-spiked
bed of night. At eight million miles she looked half the width of Luna
seen from Earth. Her whitish equatorial bands went from bottom to top,
where, Grunfeld knew, they were spinning out of sight at three miles a
second--a gelid waterfall that he imagined tugging at him with ghostly
green gangrenous fingers and pulling him over into a hydrogen Niagara.

Half as wide as Luna. But in a day she'd overflow the port as they
whipped past her on a near miss and in another day she'd be as small
as this again, but behind them, sunward, having altered their outward
course by some small and as yet unpredictable angle, but no more able
to slow _Prospero_ and her sister ships or turn them back at their 100
miles a second than the fleet's solar jets could operate at this chilly
distance from Sol. G'by, fleet. G'by, C.C.Y. spaceman.