
The universe was a black tingling, a limitless ache floating in a
larger black infinity. Something drew back and there was a dry fiery
wind on numb humps and ridges--the cabin air on his face, Grunfeld
decided, then shivered and started at the thought that he was alive and
in free-fall. His body didn't feel like a mass of internal hemorrhages.
Or did it?

He spun slowly. It stopped. Dizziness? Or the suits revolving forward
again? If they'd actually come through--

There was a creaking and cracking. The ship contracting after
frictional heating?

There was a faint stink like ammonia and formaldehyde mixed. A few
Uranian molecules forced past plates racked by turbulence?

He saw dim red specks. The board? Or last flickers from ruined
retinas? A bell jangled. He waited, but he saw nothing. Blind? Or the
meteor guard jammed? No wonder if it were. No wonder if the cabin
lights were broken.

The hot air that had dried his sweaty face rushed down the front of his
body. Needles of pain pierced him as he slumped forward out of the top
of his opening suit.

Then he saw the horizontal band of stars outlining the top of the
spaceshield and below it the great field of inky black, barely convex
upward, _that must_, he realized, _be the dark side of Uranus_.

Pain ignored, Grunfeld pushed himself forward out of his suit and
pulled himself past the captain's to the spaceshield.

The view stayed the same, though broadening out: stars above, a
curve-edged velvet black plain below. They were orbiting.

A pulsing, color-changing glow from somewhere showed him twisted stumps
of the radio lattices. There was no sign of the mirror at all. It must
have been torn away, or vaporized completely, in the fiery turbulence
of decel.

New maxs showed on the board: Cabin Temperature 214 F, Skin Temperature
907 K, Gravs 87.

Then in the top of the spacefield, almost out of vision, Grunfeld saw
the source of the pulsing glow: two sharp-ended ovals flickering
brightly all colors against the pale starfields, like two dead fish
phosphorescing.

"The torps got to 'em," Croker said, pushed forward beside Grunfeld to
the right.
