
Grunfeld looked for the pale planet's moons. Miranda and Umbriel were
too tiny to make disks, but he distinguished Ariel four diameters above
the planet and Oberon a dozen below. Spectral sequins. If the fleet
were going to get a radio signal from any of them, it would have to be
Titania, occulted now by the planet and the noisy natural static of
her roiling hydrogen air and seething methane seas--but it had always
been only a faint hope that there were survivors from the First Uranus
Expedition.

Grunfeld relaxed his neck and let his gaze drift down across the
curving star-bordered forward edge of _Prospero's_ huge mirror and the
thin jutting beams of the port lattice arm to the dim red-lit gages
below the spaceshield.

Forward Skin Temperature seven degrees Kelvin. Almost low enough for
helium to crawl, if you had some helium. _Prospero's_ insulation,
originally designed to hold out solar heat, was doing a fair job in
reverse.

Aft (sunward) Skin Temperature 75 degrees Kelvin. Close to that of
Uranus' sun-lit face. Check.

Cabin Temperature 43 degrees Fahrenheit. Brr! The Captain was a miser
with the chem fuel remaining. And rightly ... if it were right to drag
out life as long as possible in the empty icebox beyond Uranus.

Gravities of Acceleration zero. Many other zeros.

The four telltales for the fleet unblinkingly glowed dimmest blue--one
each for _Caliban_, _Snug_, _Moth_, and _Starveling_, following
_Prospero_ in line astern on slave automatic--though for months inertia
had done all five ships' piloting. Once the buttons had been green,
but they'd wiped that color off the boards because of the Enemy.

The gages still showed their last maximums. Skin 793 Kelvin, Cabin
144 Fahrenheit, Gravs 3.2. All of them hit almost a year ago, when
they'd been ace-ing past the sun. Grunfeld's gaze edged back to the
five bulbous pressure suits, once more rigidly upright in their braced
racks, that they'd been wearing during that stretch of acceleration
inside the orbit of Mercury. He started. For a moment he'd thought
he saw the dark-circled eyes of the captain peering between two of
the bulging black suits. Nerves! The captain had to be in his cabin,
readying alternate piloting programs for Copperhead.

Suddenly Grunfeld jerked his face back toward the spaceshield--so
violently that his body began very slowly to spin in the opposite
direction. This time he'd thought he saw the Enemy's green flashing
near the margin of the planet--bright green, viridian, far vivider than
that of Uranus herself. He drew himself to the telescope and feverishly
studied the area. Nothing at all. Nerves again. If the Enemy were much
nearer than a light-minute, Jackson would esp it and give warning. The
next star was still three minutes from rim contact. Grunfeld's mind
retreated to the circumstances that had brought _Prospero_ (then only
_Mercury One_) out here.


                                  II

When the First Interstellar War erupted, the pioneer fleets of Earth's
nations had barely pushed their explorations beyond the orbit of
Saturn. Except for the vessels of the International Meteor Guard,
spaceflight was still a military enterprise of America, Russia, England
and the other mega-powers.

During the first months the advantage lay wholly with the slim black
cruisers of the Enemy, who had an antigravity which allowed them
to hover near planets without going into orbit; and a frightening
degree of control over light itself. Indeed, their principal weapon
was a tight beam of visible light, a dense photonic stiletto with an
effective range of several Jupiter-diameters in vacuum. They also
used visible light, in the green band, for communication as men use
radio, sometimes broadcasting it and sometimes beaming it loosely in
strange abstract pictures that seemed part of their language. Their
gravity-immune ships moved by reaction to photonic jets the tightness
of which rendered them invisible except near the sun, where they tended
to ionize electronically dirty volumes of space. It was probably this
effective invisibility, based on light-control, which allowed them to
penetrate the Solar System as deep as Earth's orbit undetected, rather
than any power of travel in time or sub-space, as was first assumed.
Earthmen could only guess at the physical appearance of the Enemy,
since no prisoners were taken on either side.

Despite his impressive maneuverability and armament, the Enemy was
oddly timid about attacking live planets. He showed no fear of the big
gas planets, in fact hovering very close to their turgid surfaces, as
if having some way of fueling from them.

Near Terra the first tactic of the black cruisers, after destroying
Lunostrovok and Circumluna, was to hover behind the moon, as though
sharing its tide-lockedness--a circumstance that led to a sortie by
Earth's Combined Fleet, England and Sweden excepted.

At the wholly disastrous Battle of the Far Side, which was visible in
part to naked-eye viewers on Earth, the Combined Fleet was annihilated.
No Enemy ship was captured, boarded, or seriously damaged--except
for one which, apparently by a fluke, was struck by a fission-headed
anti-missile and proceeded after the blast to "burn," meaning that it
suffered a slow and puzzling disintegration, accompanied by a dazzling
rainbow display of visible radiation. This was before the "stupidity"
of the Enemy with regard to small atomic missiles was noted, or their
allergy to certain radio wave bands, and also before Terran telepaths
began to claim cloudy contact with Enemy minds.

Following Far Side, the Enemy burst into activity, harrying Terran
spacecraft as far as Mercury and Saturn, though still showing great
caution in maneuver and making no direct attacks on planets. It was as
if a race of heavily armed marine creatures should sink all ocean-going
ships or drive them to harbor, but make no assaults beyond the shore
line. For a full year Earth, though her groundside and satellite
rocketyards were furiously busy, had no vehicle in deep space--with one
exception.
