
At the onset of the War a fleet of five mobile bases of the U. S. Space
Force were in Orbit to Mercury, where it was intended they take up
satellite positions prior to the prospecting and mineral exploitation
of the small sun-blasted planet. These five ships, each with a skeleton
five-man crew, were essentially Ross-Smith space stations with a solar
drive, assembled in space and intended solely for space-to-space flight
inside Earth's orbit. A huge paraboloid mirror, its diameter four times
the length of the ship's hull, superheated at its focus the hydrogen
which was ejected as a plasma at high exhaust velocity. Each ship
likewise mounted versatile radio-radar equipment on dual lattice arms
and carried as ship's launch a two-man chemical fuel rocket adaptable
as a fusion-headed torpedo.

After Far Side, this "tin can" fleet was ordered to bypass Mercury
and, tacking on the sun, shape an orbit for Uranus, chiefly because
that remote planet, making its 84-year circuit of Sol, was currently
on the opposite side of the sun to the four inner planets and the two
nearer gas giants Jupiter and Saturn. In the empty regions of space the
relatively defenseless fleet might escape the attention of the Enemy.

However, while still accelerating into the sun for maximum boost, the
fleet received information that two Enemy cruisers were in pursuit. The
five ships cracked on all possible speed, drawing on the solar drive's
high efficiency near the sun and expending all their hydrogen and most
material capable of being vaporized, including some of the light-metal
hydrogen storage tanks--like an old steamer burning her cabin furniture
and the cabins themselves to win a race. Gradually the curving course
that would have taken years to reach the outer planet flattened into a
hyperbola that would make the journey in 200 days.

In the asteroid belt the pursuing cruisers turned aside to join in the
crucial Battle of the Trojans with Earth's largely new-built, more
heavily and wisely armed Combined Fleet--a battle that proved to be
only a prelude to the decisive Battle of Jupiter.

Meanwhile the five-ship fleet sped onward, its solar drive quite
useless in this twilight region even if it could have scraped together
the needed boilable ejectant mass to slow its flight. Weeks became
months. The ships were renamed for the planet they were aimed at. At
least the fleet's trajectory had been truly set.

Almost on collision course it neared Uranus, a mystery-cored ball
of frigid gas 32,000 miles wide coasting through space across the
fleet's course at a lazy four miles a second. At this time the fleet
was traveling at 100 miles a second. Beyond Uranus lay only the
interstellar night, into which the fleet would inevitably vanish....
