
Unless, Grunfeld told himself ... unless the fleet shed its velocity by
ramming the gaseous bulk of Uranus. This idea of atmospheric braking
on a grand scale had sounded possible at first suggestion, half a
year ago--a little like a man falling off a mountain or from a plane
and saving his life by dropping into a great thickness of feathery
new-fallen snow.

Supposing her solar jet worked out here and she had the reaction
mass, _Prospero_ could have shed her present velocity in five hours,
decelerating at a comfortable one G.

But allowing her 12,000 miles of straight-line travel through Uranus'
frigid soupy atmosphere--and that might be dipping very close to
the methane seas blanketing the planet's hypothetical mineral
core--_Prospero_ would have two minutes in which to shed her velocity.

Two minutes--at 150 Gs.

Men had stood 40 and 50 Gs for a fractional second.

But for two minutes.... Grunfeld told himself that the only surer way
to die would be to run into a section of the Enemy fleet. According to
one calculation the ship's skin would melt by heat of friction in 90
seconds, despite the low temperature of the abrading atmosphere.

The star Grunfeld had been waiting for touched the hazy rim of Uranus.
He drifted back to the eyepiece and began to follow it in as the pale
planet's hydrogen muted its diamond brilliance.


                                  III

In the aft cabin, lank hairy-wristed Croker pinned another blanket
around black Jackson as the latter shivered in his trance. Then Croker
turned on a small light at the head of the hammock.

"Captain won't like that," plump pale Ness observed tranquilly from
where he floated in womb position across the cabin. "Enemy can feel
a candle of _our_ light, captain says, ten million miles away." He
rocked his elbows for warmth and his body wobbled in reaction like a
polly-wog's.

"And Jackson hears the Enemy think ... and Heimdall hears the grass
grow," Croker commented with a harsh manic laugh. "Isn't an Enemy for
a billion miles, Ness." He launched aft from the hammock. "We haven't
spotted their green since Saturn orbit. There's nowhere for them."

"There's the far side of Uranus," Ness pointed out. "That's less than
ten million miles now. Eight. A bare day. They could be there."

"Yes, waiting to bushwack us as we whip past on our way to eternity,"
Croker chuckled as he crumpled up against the aft port, shedding
momentum. "That's likely, isn't it, when they didn't have time for us
back in the Belt?" He scowled at the tiny white sun, no bigger a disk
than Venus, but still with one hundred times as much light as the full
moon pouring from it--too much light to look at comfortably. He began
to button the inner cover over the port.

"Don't do that," Ness objected without conviction. "There's not much
heat in it but there's some." He hugged his elbows and shivered. "I
don't remember being warm since Mars orbit."

"The sun gets on my nerves," Croker said. "It's like looking at an
arc light through a pinhole. It's like a high, high jail light in a
cold concrete yard. The stars are highlights on the barbed wire." He
continued to button out the sun.

"You ever in jail?" Ness asked. Croker grinned.
