
"Captain's got to look after the whole fleet," Ness said. "You're
beginning to agitate, Croker, like you was Grunfeld--or the captain
himself."

"But if Titania Station's alive, a couple of men dropped off would do
the fleet some good. Stir Titania up to punch a message through to
Earth and get a really high-speed retrieve-and-rescue ship started out
after us. _If_ we've won the War."

"But Titania Station's dead or never was, not to mention its jeep. And
we've lost the Battle of Jupiter. You said so yourself," Ness asserted
owlishly. "Captain's got to look after the whole fleet."

"Yeah, so he kills himself fretting and the rest of us die of old age
in the outskirts of the Solar System. Join the Space Force and See the
Stars! Ness, do you know how long it'd take us to reach the nearest
star--except we aren't headed for her--at our 100 mps? Eight thousand
years!"

"That's a lot of time to kill," Ness said. "Let's play chess."

Jackson sighed and they both looked quickly at the dark unlined face
above the cocoon, but the lips did not flutter again, or the eyelids.
Croker said, "Suppose he knows what the Enemy looks like?"

"I suppose," Ness said. "When he talks about them it's as if he was
their interpreter. How about the chess?"

"Suits. Knight to King Bishop Three."

"Hmm. Knight to King Knight Two, Third Floor."

"Hey, I meant flat chess, not three-D," Croker objected.

"That thin old game? Why, I no sooner start to get the position really
visualized in my head than the game's over."

"I don't want to start a game of three-D with Uranus only 18 hours
away."

Jackson stirred in his hammock. His lips worked. "They...." he
breathed. Croker and Ness instantly watched him. "They...."

"I wonder if he is really inside the Enemy's mind?" Ness said.

"He thinks he speaks for them," Croker replied and the next instant
felt a warning touch on his arm and looked sideways and saw
dark-circled eyes in a skull-angular face under a battered cap with a
tarnished sunburst. Damn, thought Croker, how does the captain always
know when Jackson's going to talk?

"They are waiting for us on the other side of Uranus," Jackson
breathed. His lips trembled into a smile and his voice grew a little
louder, though his eyes stayed shut. "They're welcoming us, they're
our brothers." The smile died. "But they know they got to kill us, they
know we got to die."

The hammock with its tight-swathed form began to move past Croker and
he snatched at it. The captain had pushed off from him for the hatch
leading forward.
