
Grunfeld was losing the new star at 2200 miles into Uranus when he saw
the two viridian flares flashing between it and the rim. Each flash was
circled by a fleeting bright green ring, like a mist halo. He thought
he'd be afraid when he saw that green again, but what he felt was a
jolt of excitement that made him grin. With it came a touch on his
shoulder. He thought, the captain always knows.

"Ambush," he said. "At least two cruisers."

He yielded the eyepiece to the captain. Even without the telescope he
could see those incredibly brilliant green flickers. He asked himself
if the Enemy was already gunning for the fleet through Uranus.

The blue telltales for _Caliban_ and _Starveling_ began to blink.

"They've seen it too," the captain said. He snatched up the mike and
his next words rang through the _Prospero_.

"Rig ship for the snowbank orbit! Snowbank orbit with stinger! Mr.
Grunfeld, raise the fleet."

Aft, Croker muttered, "Rig our shrouds, don't he mean? Rig shrouds and
firecrackers mounted on Fourth of July rockets."

Ness said, "Cheer up. Even the longest strategic withdrawal in history
has to end some time."


                                  IV

Three quarters of a day later Grunfeld felt a spasm of futile fear and
revolt as the pressure suit closed like a thick-fleshed carnivorous
plant on his drugged and tired body. Relax, he told himself. Fine thing
if you cooked up a fuss when even Croker didn't. He thought of forty
things to re-check. Relax, he repeated--the work's over; all that
matters is in Copperhead's memory tanks now, or will be as soon as the
captain's suited up.

The suit held Grunfeld erect, his arms at his sides--the best attitude,
except he was still facing forward, for taking high G, providing the
ship herself didn't start to tumble. Only the cheekpieces and visor
hadn't closed in on his face--translucent hand-thick petals as yet
unfolded. He felt the delicate firm pressure of built-in fingertips
monitoring his pulses and against his buttocks the cold smooth muzzles
of the jet hypodermics that would feed him metronomic drugs during the
high-G stretch and stimulants when they were in free-fall again. When.

He could swing his head and eyes just enough to make out the suits of
Croker and Ness to either side of him and their profiles wavy through
the jutting misty cheekpieces. Ahead to the left was Jackson--just
the back of his suit, like a black snowman standing at attention,
pale-olive-edged by the great glow of Uranus. And to the right the
captain, his legs suited but his upper body still bent out to the side
as he checked the monitor of his suit with its glowing blue button and
the manual controls that would lie under his hands during the maneuver.

Beyond the captain was the spaceshield, the lower quarter of it
still blackness and stars, but the upper three-quarters filled with
the onrushing planet's pale mottled green that now had the dulled
richness of watered silk. They were so close that the rim hardly showed
curvature. The atmosphere must have a steep gradient, Grunfeld thought,
or they'd already be feeling decel. That stuff ahead looked more like
water than any kind of air. It bothered him that the captain was still
half out of his suit.

There should be action and shouted commands, Grunfeld thought, to fill
up these last tight-stretched minutes. Last orders to the fleet, port
covers being cranked shut, someone doing a countdown on the firing of
their torpedo. But the last message had gone to the fleet minutes ago.
Its robot pilots were set to follow _Prospero_ and imitate, nothing
else. And all the rest was up to Copperhead. Still....

Grunfeld wet his lips. "Captain," he said hesitantly. "Captain?"

"Thank you, Grunfeld." He caught the edge of the skull's answering
grin. "We _are_ beginning to hit hydrogen," the quiet voice went on.
"Forward skin temperature's up to 9 K."

Beyond the friendly skull, a great patch of the rim of Uranus flared
bright green. As if that final stimulus had been needed, Jackson began
to talk dreamily from his suit.

"They're still welcoming us and grieving for us. I begin to get it a
little more now. Their ship's one thing and they're another. Their
ship is frightened to death of us. It hates us and the only thing it
knows to do is to kill us. They can't stop it, they're even less than
passengers...."

The captain was in his suit now. Grunfeld sensed a faint throbbing and
felt a rush of cold air. The cabin refrigeration system had started up,
carrying cabin heat to the lattice arms. Intended to protect them from
solar heat, it would now do what it could against the heat of friction.

The straight edge of Uranus was getting hazier. Even the fainter
stars shone through, spangling it. A bell jangled and the pale green
segment narrowed as the steel meteor panels began to close in front
of the spaceshield. Soon there was only a narrow vertical ribbon of
green--_bright_ green as it narrowed to a thread--then for a few
seconds only blackness except for the dim red and blue beads and
semi-circles, just beyond the captain, of the board. Then the muted
interior cabin lights glowed on.
