
Jackson droned: "They and their ships come from very far away, from the
edge. If this is the continuum, they come from the ... discontinuum,
where they don't have stars but something else and where gravity is
different. Their ships came from the edge on a gust of fear with the
other ships, and our brothers came with it though they didn't want
to...."

And now Grunfeld thought he began to feel it--the first faint thrill,
less than a cobweb's tug, of _weight_.

The cabin wall moved sideways. Grunfeld's suit had begun to revolve
slowly on a vertical axis.

For a moment he glimpsed Jackson's dark profile--all five suits were
revolving in their framework. They locked into position when the men in
them were facing aft. Now at least retinas wouldn't pull forward at
high-G decel, or spines crush through thorax and abdomen.

The cabin air was cold on Grunfeld's forehead. And now he was sure he
felt weight--maybe five pounds of it. Suddenly aft was _up_. It was as
if he were lying on his back on the spaceshield.

A sudden snarling roar came through his suit from the beams bracing it.
He lost weight, then regained it and a little more besides. He realized
it was their torpedo taking off, to skim by Uranus in the top of the
atmosphere and then curve inward the little their chem fuel would let
them, homing toward the Enemy. He imaged its tiny red jet over the
great gray-green glowing plain. Four more would be taking off from the
other ships--the fleet's feeble sting. Like a bee's, just one, in dying.

The cheekpieces and foreheadpiece of Grunfeld's suit began to close on
his face like layers of pliable ice.

Jackson called faintly, "_Now_ I understand. Their ship--" His voice
was cut off.

Grunfeld's ice-mask was tight shut. He felt a small surge of vigor as
the suit took over his breathing and sent his lungs a gush of high-oxy
air. Then came a tingling numbness as the suit field went on, adding an
extra prop against decel to each molecule of his body.

But the weight was growing. He was on the moon now ... now on Mars ...
now back on Earth....

The weight was stifling now, crushing--a hill of invisible sand.
Grunfeld saw a black pillow hanging in the cabin above him aft. It had
red fringe around it. It grew.

There was a whistling and shaking. Everything lurched torturingly, the
ship's jets roared, everything recovered, or didn't.

The black pillow came down on him, crushing out sight, crushing out
thought.
