
Lovely and smiling, Judy greeted him at the door. Looking at her, Anders
sensed her knowledge of the moment. Had she felt the change in him, or
predicted it? Or was love making him grin like an idiot?

"Would you like a before-party drink?" she asked.

He nodded, and she led him across the room, to the improbable
green-and-yellow couch. Sitting down, Anders decided he would tell her
when she came back with the drink. No use in putting off the fatal
moment. A lemming in love, he told himself.

"You're getting warm again," the voice said.

He had almost forgotten his invisible friend. Or fiend, as the case
could well be. What would Judy say if she knew he was hearing voices?
Little things like that, he reminded himself, often break up the best of
romances.

"Here," she said, handing him a drink.

Still smiling, he noticed. The number two smile--to a prospective
suitor, provocative and understanding. It had been preceded, in
their relationship, by the number one nice-girl smile, the
don't-misunderstand-me smile, to be worn on all occasions, until
the correct words have been mumbled.

"That's right," the voice said. "It's in how you look at things."

Look at what? Anders glanced at Judy, annoyed at his thoughts. If he was
going to play the lover, let him play it. Even through the astigmatic
haze of love, he was able to appreciate her blue-gray eyes, her fine
skin (if one overlooked a tiny blemish on the left temple), her lips,
slightly reshaped by lipstick.

"How did your classes go today?" she asked.

Well, of course she'd ask that, Anders thought. Love is marking time.

"All right," he said. "Teaching psychology to young apes--"

"Oh, come now!"

"Warmer," the voice said.

What's the matter with me, Anders wondered. She really is a lovely girl.
The _gestalt_ that is Judy, a pattern of thoughts, expressions,
movements, making up the girl I--

I what?

Love?

Anders shifted his long body uncertainly on the couch. He didn't quite
understand how this train of thought had begun. It annoyed him. The
analytical young instructor was better off in the classroom. Couldn't
science wait until 9:10 in the morning?

"I was thinking about you today," Judy said, and Anders knew that she
had sensed the change in his mood.

"Do you see?" the voice asked him. "You're getting much better at it."

"I don't see anything," Anders thought, but the voice was right. It was
as though he had a clear line of inspection into Judy's mind. Her
feelings were nakedly apparent to him, as meaningless as his room had
been in that flash of undistorted thought.

"I really was thinking about you," she repeated.

"Now look," the voice said.

[Illustration]
