
Anders, watching the expressions on Judy's face, felt the strangeness
descend on him. He was back in the nightmare perception of that moment
in his room. This time it was as though he were watching a machine in a
laboratory. The object of this operation was the evocation and
preservation of a particular mood. The machine goes through a searching
process, invoking trains of ideas to achieve the desired end.

"Oh, were you?" he asked, amazed at his new perspective.

"Yes ... I wondered what you were doing at noon," the reactive machine
opposite him on the couch said, expanding its shapely chest slightly.

"Good," the voice said, commending him for his perception.

"Dreaming of you, of course," he said to the flesh-clad skeleton behind
the total _gestalt_ Judy. The flesh machine rearranged its limbs,
widened its mouth to denote pleasure. The mechanism searched through a
complex of fears, hopes, worries, through half-remembrances of analogous
situations, analogous solutions.

And this was what he loved. Anders saw too clearly and hated himself for
seeing. Through his new nightmare perception, the absurdity of the
entire room struck him.

"Were you really?" the articulating skeleton asked him.

"You're coming closer," the voice whispered.

To what? The personality? There was no such thing. There was no true
cohesion, no depth, nothing except a web of surface reactions, stretched
across automatic visceral movements.

He was coming closer to the truth.

"Sure," he said sourly.

The machine stirred, searching for a response.

Anders felt a quick tremor of fear at the sheer alien quality of his
viewpoint. His sense of formalism had been sloughed off, his agreed-upon
reactions bypassed. What would be revealed next?

He was seeing clearly, he realized, as perhaps no man had ever seen
before. It was an oddly exhilarating thought.

But could he still return to normality?

"Can I get you a drink?" the reaction machine asked.

At that moment Anders was as thoroughly out of love as a man could be.
Viewing one's intended as a depersonalized, sexless piece of machinery
is not especially conducive to love. But it is quite stimulating,
intellectually.

Anders didn't want normality. A curtain was being raised and he wanted
to see behind it. What was it some Russian scientist--Ouspensky, wasn't
it--had said?

"_Think in other categories._"

That was what he was doing, and would continue to do.

"Good-by," he said suddenly.

The machine watched him, open-mouthed, as he walked out the door.
Delayed circuit reactions kept it silent until it heard the elevator
door close.
