
"You were very warm in there," the voice within his head whispered, once
he was on the street. "But you still don't understand everything."

"Tell me, then," Anders said, marveling a little at his equanimity. In
an hour he had bridged the gap to a completely different viewpoint, yet
it seemed perfectly natural.

"I can't," the voice said. "You must find it yourself."

"Well, let's see now," Anders began. He looked around at the masses of
masonry, the convention of streets cutting through the architectural
piles. "Human life," he said, "is a series of conventions. When you look
at a girl, you're supposed to see--a pattern, not the underlying
formlessness."

"That's true," the voice agreed, but with a shade of doubt.

"Basically, there is no form. Man produces _gestalts_, and cuts form out
of the plethora of nothingness. It's like looking at a set of lines and
saying that they represent a figure. We look at a mass of material,
extract it from the background and say it's a man. But in truth there is
no such thing. There are only the humanizing features that
we--myopically--attach to it. Matter is conjoined, a matter of
viewpoint."

"You're not seeing it now," said the voice.

"Damn it," Anders said. He was certain that he was on the track of
something big, perhaps something ultimate. "Everyone's had the
experience. At some time in his life, everyone looks at a familiar
object and can't make any sense out of it. Momentarily, the _gestalt_
fails, but the true moment of sight passes. The mind reverts to the
superimposed pattern. Normalcy continues."

The voice was silent. Anders walked on, through the _gestalt_ city.

"There's something else, isn't there?" Anders asked.

"Yes."

What could that be, he asked himself. Through clearing eyes, Anders
looked at the formality he had called his world.

He wondered momentarily if he would have come to this if the voice
hadn't guided him. Yes, he decided after a few moments, it was
inevitable.

But who was the voice? And what had he left out?

"Let's see what a party looks like now," he said to the voice.
