
Mort walked nonchalantly over to the booth, took down the receiver,
and turned to wink again at me.

"Hello," Mort said.

Obviously the voice on the other end of the wire said something. Mort
grinned.

"They ain't here," Mort said, grinning more widely. "No. Not either of
'em. Adolf sleeps late and don't get down until noon. Benito is out
having himself a milkshake. Who'll I tell 'em called? Huh? What's
that? You call back? But who'll I tell 'em called? Huh? Gab--Gabby?
What?"

Mort put the receiver back on the hook and turned back to us, stepping
out of the booth.

"The joker said to tell Adolf and Benito he'd call back later. I
didn't get his name, but it sounded like Gabby. Smart joe, this
Gabby."

Mike was glaring. "Gabby, eh? Gabby, Gabby, Gabby," he scratched his
red head frowningly. "Who do I know named Gabby?"

"Skip it," Mort advised smilingly. "It wouldn't be the right monicker,
anyway."

Mike muttered dourly, moving back behind the counter. Suddenly he
stopped.

"You see the morning paper?" he asked his partner in sudden
recollection. "You see about that louse State's Att--"

"Yeah, I read it," Mort cut him off. "It'll blow over, even if they
get away with it. But they might not even get away with it. It's
illegal."

Mike beamed for the first time since I'd seen him that morning.
Obviously he was pleased to have his own legal judgment upheld by his
partner.

"You think so? That's what I thought." He turned to me. "Isn't that
what I thought?" he demanded.

"Did you call for the morning line check on the tracks yet?" Mort
asked, changing the subject.

Mike shook his head. "I was waiting for a few phone bets to come in,
first," he said.

"How many come in so far?" Mort asked.

Mike suddenly looked at his wrist watch and swore. "None!" he
exclaimed. "None and it's already after ten!"

Mort looked alarmed. "You mean the phone ain't rang with a bet since
you been down?"

"Only time the phone rung was with that practical joker, twicet. You
heard 'em," Mike declared.

"But by this time we generally have a couple dozen bets in from the
phones!" Mort exclaimed. "This is bad. Whatcha think goes?"

"Goes?" Mike exclaimed indignantly. "How should I know what goes?"

Mort suddenly clapped his palm to his brow. "Maybe it's got somethin'
to do with that news story!"

"About the State's Attorney gonna check the phone lists?" Mike
demanded.

"Yeah."

Mike thought this over. "No," he decided. "Couldn't be. Not so soon,
yet. Tomorrow, maybe, but not so soon."

Mort calmed down a little. "You're right there," he said. "It wouldn't
be so soon."

"Maybe this is a bad day," I broke in. "Maybe your customers just
aren't betting this morning."

Mort and Mike looked at me as if I were crazy, which possibly I was.
Two dozen steady horse players don't all stop at once, if ever.

Mike was as sorely troubled as Mort.

"We got at least couple dozen bets acrosst the counter already this
morning," he said. "But no phone bets."

"Maybe the damn thing is _actually_ out of order," Mort groaned,
glancing at the telephone.

"Then how did we get them two calls from the joker?" Mike demanded.
"No. That phone ain't no more outta order than I am."

"You're right. I forgot those calls," Mort acknowledged.
