
I started out to explore the spot where our ship landed. A couple of
miles away were some rolling hills, covered with trees. Since we had
seen a number of small animals, I figured there would be game there,
probably water too.

Clive came with me, not to explore, but because he couldn't order me
around at long distance and there's nothing worse to a politician than
not being able to do any politicking. I was stuck with him.

We hit a jackpot. Not only was there a clear stream running through
a valley in the hills, but there was an abundance of small game. And
there was a ruined city.

Sometime in the past, this planet had been inhabited. Then something
happened. Epidemic, war, famine, drought or something we didn't know
about had wiped out the intelligent life to a man. This had happened so
long ago that even the bones had turned to dust. But the shell of his
cities remained.

"Too bad," said Clive, "this is going to make your task more difficult."

"Why?"

"You'll have the added duties of being the police force, the sanitary
commission and the city council," he said.

"But there's no need for those things," I protested. "There's nobody
to govern."

"You will also have to be the populace."

I could see that I was going to have the splittingest personality in
the galaxy.

"We'll also have to establish a monetary system," Clive went on.
"Unless there's trade, our city will perish."

"That's one thing we don't have to do," I said. We had been standing in
the stone framework of a building and I had kicked a pile of dust with
the toe of my boot. Under the dust was a mound of square, flat objects
of gold. Coins.

"We've already got money."

Clive pounced on them. "My word," he explained. "We're wealthy!"

"Nuts," I said. "What can you buy with it?"

"It's gold," he said. "There may be a bank in these ruins!"

"You were talking awhile ago about food, shelter and water," I said.
"We've got the shelter and water, but we still got to have food, unless
we want those little rabbits for a steady diet." The animals weren't
rabbits, but they were about rabbit-size.

"We've got to have economics," said Clive. "I'll pay you for all the
food you bring in, and you can buy your food from me."

It sounded crazy, but I made like a willow again.

In order for him to have enough money to pay me to work, I had to find
a bank. A good candidate seemed to be a building larger than the others
that nestled against a hillside, surrounded by trees. It had a facade
supported by fluted columns and it was in pretty good shape since the
hill probably sheltered it from a lot of the weather that had taken
such a toll from the other buildings.

With Clive at my heels, I went inside. It was light, since the roof had
rotted away. It was a temple with a hollow square sacrificial altar in
the center of a large hall. And it was better than a bank.

Scattered everywhere were gold coins, such as we had already found. In
addition there were bars of blackened silver, glass jugs filled with
precious stones, solid gold candlesticks, ornaments and jewelry.

"You will be well paid, my subject," said Clive. "People of every
planet in the universe will envy the people of this planet."

"What's the name of our planet, by the way?" I asked.

The answer came in a different voice: "Up to now it's been Lonesome."
