
I had my hands full of coins, but as I heard the voice they slipped out
of my fingers and fell to the stone floor with a clanking sound. I
wheeled around and in the red sunlight that streamed through the broken
roof, I saw a human figure. A woman.

At first I thought she was smiling, and then I saw that her lips were
grim and tense. What made her look more formidable than anything was
what she held in her hand. A large-size, old fashioned thirty-eight on
a forty-five frame.

She wasn't the ghost of a vanished race. She was real, from the top of
her wavy, black hair, to the crude hand-made sandals on her feet. Her
eyes were soft and brown, but they glinted like the flash of polished
steel. Her figure was well proportioned and graceful in its curves, but
there was no mistaking hardened muscles. Her clothing, which included
shorts and a sack-like blouse, seemed to have been woven from grass
fibers, and animal skins.

I got tired of trying to watch the gun and her curves at the same time,
so I forgot about the gun, since she wasn't pulling the trigger.

"Yes," she said, "it used to be Lonesome, but now it looks like we'll
have to call it the Problem Planet."

"Good heavens," said Dave. "A fifty-percent increase in population!"

"Let's not talk about increasing the population just yet," said the
girl. "Let's get acquainted." She smiled and it made her look lots
nicer than when she was grim. She spoke to me. "Drop your pistol
holster on the floor and then frisk your friend."

I'd been so used to acting like a willow that it was no trouble at all
to obey. Besides, I figured it was only custom that made a king outrank
a queen. On a new planet a little change might work wonders.

"My name's Rosemary," she said, when I had finished. "This is my planet
and you're trespassing."

"Fiddlesticks," said Clive. "This is not your planet. I'll admit you
might have squatter's rights on a limited portion of it, but you can't
possibly claim it all."

"Here's my deed," she said, waving the gun. "Who are you?"

"He's Senator Clive Littlebrook," I explained. "I'm Dave Camptain, a
space pilot."

"I'm also the supreme court on this planet," said Clive, "and I'm
handing down a decision right now. Your claim to the whole planet is
invalid." While Rosemary looked as if she wanted to pull the trigger,
he turned to me. "You're the clerk of the court, so write down my
decision: State vs. Rosemary--uh, what's your last name, my dear?"

"None of your business," said Rosemary.

"Oh well," said Clive. "Adam and Eve didn't have last names, and until
the population is heavier, we won't need last names here."

"Here it's going to be Eve and Adam--if things progress that far," said
Rosemary.

"My dear," said Clive, "you must realize that you belong to the
minority party. It will give us a chance to practice democracy in its
simplest form. The first thing we'll vote on is disarmament. All in
favor, say Aye!"

"Aye!" I said.

"All opposed, signify by the usual sign."

"No!" said Rosemary.

"I shall have to cast the deciding vote," said Clive. "In view of
peaceful relations, I shall have to vote Aye." He smiled and extended
his hand. "Give me the gun, my dear."

"No," said Rosemary.

"My dear, you are establishing a bad precedent. Your stand may lead to
war later on. You wouldn't want the blood of millions to be on your
head?"

"I don't want my blood to be on yours either," said Rosemary.

Clive turned to me. "Dave, as chief of the police, it is your duty to
disarm the woman. She is violating the law by possessing firearms."

"We won't harm you, Rosemary," I said. I could see her point of view,
but on the other hand nobody likes to have a gun pointed at him.

"No," said Rosemary.

"Listen to reason," I said. "There are two of us and only one of you.
Sooner or later you're going to have to sleep, while we can take turns
sleeping. You can't keep that gun pointed at us forever. So you might
as well be a good sport."

"Uh-uh," said Rosemary.

"My dear," said Clive, "you are an earthling, certainly your instincts
must be for the democratic way of life. A gun speaks of tyranny."

It wasn't hard to figure she was an earthling. She spoke perfect
English and a thirty-eight on a forty-five frame isn't found on other
planets, unless earthmen brought them there. While I was curious about
her origin, I figured that at the moment there were more important
problems to solve.

This one looked near solution. As I recovered from my initial shock of
seeing a beautiful girl pointing a gun at me, I noticed the gun more
than I did at first. There were unmistakable signs of rust, and a rusty
gun is often more dangerous to the shooter than to the shootee. It was
so rusty, in fact, that I doubted if it would fire.

So I simply stepped forward and grabbed it.
