
She seemed to have been waiting for this move. No sooner had I jerked
the gun out of her hand, than she seized my wrists, turned, and pulled
me over her shoulder in a snap mare. The next thing I knew, I had
landed in a heap.

"Want to try two falls out of three?" she asked.

"No thanks," I said. I got up and examined my bruises.

"As long as Rosemary is disarmed," said Clive, "we'll go ahead with our
plans for a democracy. The first step is a free election. I'll nominate
myself for president and general manager of the planet."

"I'll nominate--" Rosemary began.

"Sorry," said Clive, "nominations are closed. Since there is no
opposition, I'll move and second that I'm elected unanimously. May I
congratulate you on your wisdom, since I'm the only one of our group
who has had political experience."

"Hey," I said, "aren't you pushing this thing a little fast?"

"It is necessary to establish a civilized government quickly," said
Clive. "And I assure you, I'll be bi-partisan in my government.
I'll appoint you, Dave, as secretary of state, and you, Rosemary, as
secretary of--hmm, let's see--how about secretary of labor?"

"No," said Rosemary.

Clive didn't seem to be upset. "Well, we must expect opposition from
the minority party. It's your privilege to refuse the nomination."

"Comes the revolution," said Rosemary.

"I was hoping we'd have no subversion," said Clive, "but if there is,
it will be dealt with promptly." He turned to me. "Now I think we'd
better go about checking our national resources." He leaned over and
picked up a handful of gold coins and stuffed them into his pocket.
Then he helped himself to some diamonds, emeralds and rubies.

Rosemary turned on her heel and walked toward the door. When she
reached it, she turned a moment: "When you get hungry, or need me, I'll
be around." Then she was gone.

"That reminds me," said Clive. "We'd better look for food."

He stooped and picked his gun off the floor.

"Uh-uh," I said. "You ruled against armament."

Clive hesitated. "But we should protect ourselves against wild
animals."

"Rosemary has been living here for quite a while," I said. "She
admitted her gun was useless, so I don't think there are any dangerous
animals. And I'm certainly not going to let her laugh at me by carrying
a gun to protect myself from her, even--even if she is a lady wrestler."

Clive nodded. "I see your point. But if we leave the guns here, she may
get them."

"I'll take care of that." I picked up both weapons and hunted till I
found what probably had been a well. I dropped them into it, albeit
with misgivings. Still, a woman's laughter is something that masculine
pride would rather die than face. Women do laugh at men, but they do it
politely, or where men can't hear them. Maybe Rosemary was laughing now.

Without the guns, though, we had a more difficult food problem. We
would have to trap animals, or depend on fish, if fish existed in the
stream that ran through the ruined city. And there were.

I sharpened a couple of sticks with my knife and we tried spearing
fish. We decided that it would take a lot of skill, and probably days
of practice. We'd have to weave some nets, and this would take time
too. I was about to suggest that we go back to the spaceship and live
on what we had, when Clive found a clam.

It was different from the terrestrial clam, in that it was almost
egg-shaped, but there was no mistaking what it was. Presently Clive had
dug up quite a pile of them from the stream and I had a little fire
glowing under some stones. On top of the stones, I piled wet moss to
steam the clams and I was just about ready to have a clam bake, when
Clive started to groan.

"What's the matter?" I asked.

"I ate a clam," he said. "Raw. It-it's poisoning me!"

Presently he was lying on the ground, writhing.
