
We fixed up some of the better preserved buildings into houses.

We made tools out of sticks, stones, gold and silver. We trapped
animals and domesticated them and we planted gardens and wove clothing
out of grass and fur.

Rosemary showed us how to do most of the things and then left us to do
them while she explored the ruins and dug up items that told how the
vanished race lived.

"They were humanoid," she told us once. "I found a frieze that pictured
the inhabitants. While the art was primitive, it was easy to see that
they were a great deal like men. Probably their civilization would
compare favorably with that of Rome in Caesar's time, although I
haven't found much bronze. Probably they had iron which has rusted
away. I still haven't found what killed them, but for that matter no
one really knows what killed the dinosaur. It's probably due to the
fact that there's a critical point in the development of any species,
when that point is reached, the species dies."

"But man went farther on earth than here," I said.

"Sure, because the critical point on the earth is higher than on
Problem planet." She paused, and added: "At least that's what my father
thought."

"Your father?"

"Yes. He was an astro-archeologist," she explained. "He brought me here
when I was a little girl, only twelve years old, and he died here. I've
lived alone in this ruined city ever since."

"Didn't he have a spaceship?"

"Sure. But I didn't know how to run it."

"You mean it's still here? Can it operate?"

"I suppose so. I don't know anything about spaceships."

I almost yelled. "Why didn't you say so? We could have been on our way
to civilization long ago!"

She nodded toward Clive. "He's so happy here, being the President of
Everything."

"Good heavens, girl!" I said, "Clive's a politician. He's got to have
people. A whole planetful of people to really be happy. Right now
he's--"

I stopped. Rosemary had tears in her eyes.

Clive had been busy grinding some nuts into a sort of flour and when he
noticed Rosemary wiping her eyes, he rose and came over to where I'd
been weaving while I talked to her.

"What's the matter?" he asked.

I decided to break the news by easy stages. "Supposing we had a way to
get off this planet. To go to the earth, or III Arcturus, or somewhere
we could live like human beings again. Wouldn't you want to go?"

Clive laughed. "I've never had so much fun in my life," he said. "Here
I'm everything I wanted to be. I've got a nice political boss, and I'm
the chief executive of a whole planet. I'm also the Supreme Court and
one third of the voters. I've got more wealth than a nabob, and no
pressing appointments with people I don't like."

Rosemary looked up at him.

"You like me?"

"Certainly," Clive said. "Woman has always been the dominant sex--the
stronger sex if you like. On earth she invented the idea that man
was the Big Shot, but that was to keep men from being discontented.
Equality of the sexes always has been a myth, but I didn't realize it
until civilization was reduced to its simplest form."

"What about you, Dave?" Rosemary asked.

"Personally, I like life on easier terms," I said. "Not that it isn't
pleasant here, but we have to work so hard. And we've been lucky not
to have had any real sickness, except for the time Clive ate a clam
and that wasn't serious. But sooner or later we're going to need the
science of medicine. And if we don't need that, we're going to have to
have something else that civilization has and we haven't. Furthermore,
man is a gregarious animal. He may kid himself about how nice it would
be to live on a desert island, but no matter how anti-social he is, he
doesn't feel right without others around him. Even if it's only to be
disagreeable with them."

"Isn't civilization a lot like the gold and precious stones in the
temple?" asked Clive. "The stuff is no good unless we need it."

"But it's wrong to have useful things and not use them," I said. "It's
miserly."

"Okay," said Clive. "But we have no other choice."

"But we have," Rosemary broke in. "I just told Dave that I have a
spaceship. You can go away if you wish, or stay. It's up to you. I
didn't tell you before, because I hadn't made up my own mind. Now I
have."

"It's my mind that has to be made up," I said. "I'm the only one of
us who can pilot a spaceship. No matter what you want to do, I've got
quite a say in the matter."
