
Clive sat down on the ground beside me. "So you're the most important
one. You're the king for a day. If we want to go back to civilization,
you're the only one who can take us."

"Right," I said. "When we landed, you were top man because you were
a big wheel. Right away Rosemary took the sceptre because she was a
woman, and women are scarce. Now I'm President of Everything."

"It's a democracy," said Rosemary. "We'll vote on it."

"In view of the importance of the occasion, we should have a debate
first," said Clive.

"You first, Dave," said Rosemary.

"Okay," I said. "We've shared everything and since you've both probably
guessed it anyhow, I'll admit that I'm in love with Rosemary. She
hasn't given me the chance to tell her alone, so I'll tell the world.
Here I've got a 50-50 chance of getting her, maybe better, because
I'm nearer her own age. But away from here the odds go down. I'll go
if Rosemary goes, and if she'll have me. Otherwise, we'll stay. Maybe
Clive and I will have to fight for you, Rosemary."

"You next, Clive," said Rosemary.

"If Rosemary goes with you, Dave," said Clive, "we'll fight. We're
about evenly matched. Perhaps you're a little younger, but I'm still in
my prime and I've got experience. If Rosemary stays with me, and lets
you go away, there'll be no fight. In either event, it looks like I'm
stuck here, because I can't imagine you taking Rosemary and I back to
civilization if you lost her."

I looked at Rosemary. "Your vote," I said.

"You see, Dave," she said, "I'm still the most important person on this
planet. I can have almost anything happen, just by the decision I make."

"What is your decision?" asked Clive.

She looked at me, then at Clive. "You started out playing politics,"
she said, "and it all comes back to the same old thing. Man and woman.
Maybe that's politics, because nations are based on the family. But
we have proved one thing anyhow. Even in a civilization of only three
people, each one has his moments of supremacy. And there must always be
compromise, or bloodshed. If we stay, the compromise must be polyandry.
I must accept both of you as mates. If we go, one of you must be
compensated for losing me. Supposing one takes all the gold we can
carry away, the other takes me?"

"If Clive will take the gold," I said.

"If Dave will take the gold," said Clive.

"See?" she smiled. "Gold isn't the most important thing in the world.
I'm much more valuable than all the gold you can ever use."

"There must be other women in the galaxy that Dave can console himself
with," Clive said. "That gold would certainly help him find her."

"I was just about to suggest the same thing, pertaining to you," I
said. "But as far as I'm concerned, Rosemary is my choice. She doesn't
care whether I'm wealthy or not."

"There must be a solution to this problem," Clive said.

"There is," said Rosemary.

Clive rose to his feet and I did too. Rosemary didn't seem to expect
this and she was late getting up.

"In politics," said Clive, "it is known as the coup d'etat."

He swung and I swung. Then we both swung while Rosemary screamed.
Suddenly everything got black.

When I woke up, I thought I had underestimated Clive, but I saw him
sleeping peacefully and I also observed he had a lump on his head, like
I had. Rosemary was sitting on a chunk of marble watching us, holding a
small stout club in her hand.

"As soon as you feel strong enough," she said, "you can start loading
gold onto my spaceship. It's over in the next valley. We're all going
back to civilization. The wars there are more impersonal."

"You've made your choice?" I asked.

"I have," she said, "but to avoid bloodshed, I'll not reveal it till we
get home--unless one of you figures it out."

"What happens then?"

"The loser gets locked up or placed under guard. I don't think,
if you're the loser you'd do anything silly, like cracking up the
spaceship. After all, there'll be a fortune in gold and consolation
with another girl. I'm sure there is another girl in the universe."

At the time, though I didn't think there was.
