
He was small, even smaller than the other Earthmen Marik had seen, and
his mouth worked curiously and constantly. His face had been dried by
the desert. He shook sand from his hair, his eyes, his ears.

"I thought I was finished that time," he said, looking up into Marik's
eyes. The Earthman's eyes were bright and hard, and Marik found the
contact unpleasant.

"You are safe here," Marik said. "This is the Temple of Carthule."

"I've heard of you people," the Earthman said. "Understand you're a
sort of hotel and religion combined."

"Not exactly," Marik said. "But the strongest tenet of our faith is
that the Guest Rite is inviolable. Our greatest joy is giving sanctuary
to wanderers. You are welcome here so long as you care to stay."

The little Earthman nodded his head. "Sounds fine with me. But I won't
trouble you long. I was just passing through this region on my way back
to New Chicago--I mean Corolla--when I got lost in your desert. Dropped
my compass in the sand and couldn't find my way after that."

"Yes," Marik said. "It is very difficult."

"You're telling me! It would not be so bad if you had stars here on
Venus--Carthule, I mean--but you don't, and so there's no way to get
your direction. I could have died out there before I found my way back
to Corolla. I'm shipping back to Earth," he said. "I can't wait to get
back. No disrespect meant, of course," he added cautiously.

Marik looked down at the Earthman. _I'll never get used to their pale
skins_, he thought. _And they talk so much._ "Yes," he said. "I know
many of your people find our planet a difficult one to live on. We are
better adapted for such life than you."

"Sure," the Earthman said. "Say, could I get some rest now? I'm pretty
well shot after that tour of your desert."

"Certainly," said Marik. "Kenra Sarg, will you show our guest to one of
our rooms? Feel free to stay as long as you care to," he said to the
Earthman. "Carthule's generosity is unbounded."

"Oh, don't worry about that," the Earthman said. "I'm not going to stay
for long. Just a day or so to recover my bearings, so to speak, and
once I'm in traveling shape again I'm heading straight for Corolla."
Kenra Sarg led him away, and he followed, still talking.

Marik looked briefly up at the sky, but Carthule made no answer. For
some reason Marik felt suspicious of this Earthman, and as he moved
toward the room of prayer to perform the service customary upon the
arrival of one seeking sanctuary, he uttered a small, silent plea to
Carthule to keep his mind free of groundless hatreds.
