
When Marik finished his devotion before the great purple figure of
Carthule, he kissed the blazing eye of the statue as was his private
custom, humbled himself before the altar, and turned to leave.

"I waited till you were through, Marik," said a tall figure in priestly
robes who had been standing at the door. "I didn't want to interrupt
your service."

"Polla San! Why have you come here now? I expected you next month!"

Marik looked anxiously at his fellow priest. He knew well that the old
priest of the neighboring temple left his books and his meditations
infrequently, and never came to visit Marik without first sending
notice.

"Serious business," said Polla San. Marik noticed for the first time
that the other was wearing the gold band. It was a sign of deep sorrow.

"Tell me outside," Marik said. "This is not the room for it."

"This is of His realm," Polla San said. "Listen: not long ago one
of the Earthmen arrived at my temple. He said he was on his way to
Corolla, and was looking for shelter and a place to sleep before
crossing the desert. Of course, we welcomed him and, since we had no
more beds, I gave him my room and slept on the floor in the mealroom.
Last night he left, hurriedly, without telling anyone. When I found my
room empty, I concluded he had gone, and I went to the room of prayer
to offer my wish that Carthule protect him on his journey. I bowed
before the statue, even as you did now--and when I looked up I saw that
the eye had been stolen!"

"No!" Marik said. He turned and looked at his own statue of Carthule.
In the center of the forehead burned the irreplaceable stone that had
been set there century upon century before--a great red stone with
secret fires burning in its heart. He tried to picture the eye not
there, and could not. The eye was the heart of the Temple.

"Our Earthman had stolen the eye," Polla San said. "But he is still in
our power. He left so hurriedly that he forgot this." He reached into
his robe and took out a small metallic object.

"His compass," Polla San said. "Without this, he cannot cross the
desert. He is still out there somewhere. Come: let your acolytes and
mine search the desert for him, regain the eye, and give him the death
he deserves."

Marik sank to his knees before the statue. "No," he said.

"No?" Polla San put his hand on the other's shoulder. "We are within
our rights. The Earthmen will agree with us; he has committed a
sacrilege and we must punish him for it. Why be afraid?"

"It's not that," Marik said. "He richly deserves death. But he is not
in the desert. He is here."

"Here?"

"I saw him wandering out there and sent Kenra Sarg to bring him in.
He is asleep in one of our guest rooms now. I was just performing the
Guest Rite for him when you came."

Polla San sank to his knees alongside Marik. "This is serious, Marik.
If he is a guest of yours, he is inviolate. He will sleep here in the
home of Carthule after having committed the greatest of desecrations,
and we must serve him and feed him and shelter him. It's not right,
Marik!"

Marik turned in amazement. "You're not questioning the Word, are you?
The Guest Rite is inviolable. As long as he is our guest, we cannot
harm him. To punish him for his act would be a greater violation than
the act itself."

"But can we let this Earthman remain a guest of Carthule, Marik? Let
him sleep down there with the eye in his pocket, and not do a thing
about it! He could flaunt the jewel under our noses and we'd have to
nod our heads and offer him more food."

"The way of Carthule is the right way," Marik said. "The Guest Rite
is inviolable. We will continue to treat this Earthman as we would
Carthule Himself."

"But what can I do, Marik? My temple is no longer a temple without the
eye!"

"Carthule will show us the way, Polla San. Suppose we pray."
