
The following morning the Earthman, after a hearty meal, stretched
himself luxuriously and looked out across the desert.

"I guess I'll be moving along," he said to Marik. "I'm in fine shape
now, thanks."

"I am glad you found your stay restful," Marik said, concealing his
feelings for the desecrator. "Carthule is ever-providing."

The Earthman began to move idly up and down the mealroom, examining the
ancient furnishings. "That reminds me," he said. "You wouldn't have a
compass to lend me, would you?"

"A compass?" Marik let a puzzled frown cross his forehead. "What may a
compass be?" he asked in just the right tone of ignorance.

The Earthman glanced at him impatiently. "You know," he said, gesturing
with his hands. "It's a sort of a little metal box with a magnetic
pointer. You must have seen them."

"No," Marik said. "Out here we rarely have guests from your world. I
have not seen any compasses."

"Don't you use them yourselves--or something equivalent, I mean? A
compass is for traveling. It tells you what direction you're going in."

Marik smiled. "We of Carthule have no need of such things, friend. We
need no external guides here."

The Earthman worried a tangled wisp of hair. "Nothing at all? How do
you find your way around in the desert?"

"We know how to travel," said Polla San quietly, emerging from his
reverie.

"But--how can I get back to Corolla without a compass? I'll just get
lost again!" The Earthman looked anxiously from one impassive blue face
to another.

"Carthule will help you, friend," Marik said. "Carthule helps all who
love Him."

It seemed to Marik that the Earthman paled a little.

"Maybe you could lend me a guide," he said. "I can pay well. Maybe you
could let me have that big fellow who brought me in from the desert?
He could just show me the way to Corolla and then come right back."

"Our acolytes have no time for such journeys," Marik said. "We are busy
here all the day long."

"But all you do is pray--I mean--" he broke off, realizing he had
insulted his hosts. He turned and stared out at the shifting sands.

"You will have to set out alone," Polla San said.

"Can't you let me have anyone? Just a kitchen boy?" His hard little
eyes flicked from one priest to the other. "Anyone at all? Otherwise
I'm stuck here for good!"

"Carthule will guide you," Marik said.

The Earthman stared angrily at the tall priests. "I'm beginning
to think you want me to get lost again," he said. "You talk about
Carthule, and charity, but because I'm an Earthman you won't help me.
But I'll show you. I'll get back to Corolla. And you'll pay for this
when I do!"

He ran out. Marik and Polla, sitting quietly, exchanged glances.

"We are moving in the right direction," Polla San said. "But I think
you would be wise to guard your room of prayer lest he seek to add to
his collection."

"No fear of that," Marik said. "We'll see him again."
