
The Earthman disappeared later that morning. Kenra Sarg reported that
he had set out, alone, in the general direction of Corolla, after
fruitlessly attempting to bribe one of the kitchen boys to accompany
him. He had offered them fabulous sums, but they had laughed at him.

The Eye of Marik's Carthule was still in place, but one of the younger
acolytes, who had been praying all morning, told Marik that the
Earthman had furtively entered the room of prayer and had backed out
upon seeing the priest at his devotions.

With the Earthman gone, Marik returned to the calm of his daily
routine. The after-meal meditation was a pleasant one; he and Polla
San sat facing the desert, contemplating the grandeur of Carthule and
pondering the meaning of His ways, until they sank into a transcendent
peace. As the night winds began to cool the desert, they fell into a
discussion of the problem of evil.

Marik maintained that Carthule had created the Earthmen out of His
infinite wisdom, better to show the virtue of His people by contrast;
while Polla San, wandering on the very edge of orthodox theology,
suggested that the god whom the Earthman worshipped was actually
independent of Carthule, representing the embodiment of evil as
Carthule was the personification of good.

Marik refused to accept this, arguing that Carthule had created both
His people and the Earthmen, or perhaps--as a concession to Polla
San--that he had created the god of the Earthmen who, in turn, had
created the Earthmen. The discussion went on through the night, while
the night winds swirled the sand up around the temple, and they felt no
need of sleep.

"Your theory denies the omnipotence of Carthule," Marik said, as the
night winds began to lower in intensity. "If you postulate an evil
force of as great power as the good, you deny the factors on which our
morality--" Marik broke off, seeing that Polla San had slipped off into
the near-sleep of a reverie.

He stood up, his long legs cramped after the afternoon and night of
sitting, and walked up and down. The desert was settling into its
morning calm after the tempestuous night. He stared out across it,
thinking of the Earthman who had set out for Corolla with the priceless
eye of Carthule in a pouch by his side.

There was a figure in the distance, walking slowly and with great
difficulty in widening circles, following a wild path to the temple.
Marik lifted his nictitating lid to make sure his eyes were not playing
him false.

Then, rather than awakening Kenra Sarg or Polla San, he did up his robe
and went out in the desert to fetch the Earthman back himself.
