
He had been wandering all night, tossed by the night winds, eyes and
ears and mouth choked with sand. He was still master enough of himself
to throw an angry glare at Marik when the priest approached, but he
suffered himself to be lifted like a child and carried back to the
temple. The pouch was still hanging by his side, Marik noted.

"I see our friend has returned," Polla San said.

"Yes," Marik said. "Yesterday morning he departed without taking
leave and lost his way again on the way to Corolla. After a night in
the desert he found his way back to us and is once again looking for
sanctuary. This is true, isn't it?" Marik said, looking down at the
Earthman cradled in his arms.

The Earthman angrily spat out some sand.

"Carthule in His mercy has brought our wanderer back," Polla San said.

"I'll take him below," Marik said. "His night in the desert has left
him weak and sore, and he needs rest. But he will always find sanctuary
here with Carthule. Carthule shows His generosity to the lowest of
creatures."

Kenra Sarg appeared at the door. "I see our guest has returned," he
said.

"Yes. He has come back to us." Marik handed the Earthman over to Kenra
Sarg, despite an impotent look of rage from the huddled, battered
little thief.

"Take him to the room he had, and let him rest. He has traveled, and he
is weary. I will go to the room of prayer, and offer up the Guest Rite
for him, for he is our guest again. For as long as he cares to stay."

Kenra Sarg nodded and carried the Earthman inside.

Marik turned to Polla San. "Carthule has treated us well. I always feel
happy when we have a guest."

Polla San smiled. "He still has the eye, I hope."

"He still does. I don't think he got too far last night. I've never
seen anyone quite so angry."

"He will never find his way to Corolla alone," Polla San said. "Not
without this." He thoughtfully fondled the compass in his hand.

"If my acolytes were not all so busy, I would allow one to guide him,"
Marik said, smiling. "But I can spare none, and I enjoy offering our
hospitality. He is our guest, and we must do all in our power to make
his stay enjoyable. Perhaps he will never want to leave."

"No," Polla San said, standing up and flexing his legs. "He will leave
often, and silently. Perhaps he will take your statue's eye as well, to
put in the pouch by his side. But he will return, as he did yesterday."

"He will return," Marik said. "Again and again. He will never find his
way across the desert to Corolla, and eventually he will stay here as
our permanent guest. And one day he shall die, if not sooner then
later--these Earthmen are a short-lived breed--and we will recover the
eyes, which will still be in the pouch by his side."

"It is wonderful to have a guest," Polla San said.

"It is," Marik said. "He shall live here with the eyes by his side, and
one day he will die and we can recover our treasures from him. He can
never get far with them. We can wait. He has but a few decades left,
while Carthule has all eternity. Come," he said.

Together they went to the room of prayer to offer the service of the
Guest Rites.