
"The highways leading into and out of this island. Regardless of the
number of lanes, if one automobile breaks down, traffic is immobilized
for miles. Multiply that by several dozen, all at the same time, on all
the entrances and exits to the island, and no earthly power could
untangle that situation in less than a week, if then!"

His words evoked an image of metal monsters, stretched as far as the eye
could see, steam pouring from their overheated radiators as they
raucously bleated for help.

"All this can be accomplished quite simply and inexpensively," continued
my bearded little man. "However, what of subsurface transportation?"

"You mean the subway system?"

"Exactly. Once again, simplicity is the key. What do subway riders use
to gain entrance through the turnstiles? Tokens. Let us suppose that on
this same given day the majority of tokens distributed are all
fractionally larger than normal. Not enough to be noticed, mind you, but
just enough so they cannot pass through the slots and activate the
mechanism."

"But--"

"Do you realize the absolute ingenuity of this plan? Subway riders by
the thousands will be trying to put tokens _that they paid for_ into
slots that will not receive them! The tremendous howl of anguish that
will arise! The roar of frustration and then anger as the thousands pile
upon the thousands at rush hour! The screaming and pushing as multitudes
press forward at each subway station, demanding their rights of ingress
as good citizens, while more multitudes press from the incoming trains
demanding their rights of egress! Unquestionably the entire subway
system will collapse in a matter of minutes! What was it you said
before?"

"_Ab homine homini periculum quotidianum?_"

"And how!" He lit a cigar and puffed away for a few moments, filling my
room with its foul odor. "Ingenious, eh?" he said finally.

"But to what end?" I asked. "If anarchy rules the city, how could
whoever is behind this plan assume control?"

He leaned back in the chair, disappearing from view. "That is not part
of the scheme. The purpose is to arouse the rest of the country to what
has happened to its greatest metropolis. Every eye, ear, radio and
television station will be turned towards Manhattan. The armed forces,
all the resources of the government will, within hours, pour into the
city, or try to. And at precisely that moment the rest of the country
will be childishly open to invasion! If this plan succeeds, professor,
the United States will be conquered within a matter of days, with
remarkably little destruction or loss of life."

I stared at the little figure in the chair. Was he serious? More
important--was he sane? "Who is planning this invasion?"

"Who else?"

"Why tell me this story? Why not go to the authorities?"

"I need sufficient proof, first. Unfortunately, matters are coming to a
head far sooner than I expected. In addition, my disposing of one of
their men earlier," he tapped his left arm significantly, "has left me
in a vulnerable position. I dare not go to the authorities myself, for
fear of exposing myself. And believe me"--he snapped his fingers--"I
would not get as far as the nearest policeman. However, professor, you
are unsuspected. _You_ could report this plan with no danger to
yourself."

"Enough! My dear Mr. Rumplestein-O'Grady, do you expect me to charge
into a police station and blurt out this ridiculous story?"

"I don't expect you to charge anywhere, professor. Not without proof. I
will get the proof for you, by tomorrow. Then--as I suspect--if _I_ am
unable to warn the authorities, I will expect _you_ to do so. In the
meantime, make use of these when you go to the university, tomorrow. I
found them on the body of the man I disposed of."

He dropped several tinkly objects on my desk, rose, and, without another
word, was gone. I picked up the items. They were subway tokens. I
hurried to the window and glanced out. I could see the little man
hurrying down the street, his head bobbing up and down like a swimmer in
the ocean. Then, my mind in a turmoil, I turned out the light and went
to bed. Fortunately, regardless of the press of circumstances, I have
never had difficulty in falling asleep and tonight was no exception.
