
At seven-thirty the next morning I arose, dressed, and prepared my
breakfast. I thought of the events of the preceding evening. Had it not
been for the bloodied towel with which I had washed the little man's
wounds, I might have dismissed the entire incident as a dream. I
continued to think about it while walking to the subway. I berated
myself for taking the story seriously even for a moment, as I dropped a
token into the turnstile and pressed forward. I gasped in sudden pain as
the turnstile, still locked, pushed into my midriff. I glanced at the
token in the slot. It had not dropped. I pressed it down. It refused to
budge. I tried several other tokens, all with the same result. By this
time half a dozen people had gathered behind me, making angry remarks.
Flustered, I backed away, bought a token from the cashier, and rode to
the University. Then it was I recalled that I had tried to use the
tokens my strange visitor had placed on my desk before parting from me,
and which I had, without thinking, picked up in the morning.

All that day I pondered over the tokens and the odd tale of Mr.
Rumplestein-O'Grady. I could still give it no credence, but I _was_
disturbed. On my way home, that evening, as is my wont, I bought a
newspaper and began reading it casually. Just before reaching my
station, I came across a small item on one of the inside pages. It
stated that a small, bearded man, wearing a checkered suit, had been
found in the river that morning, stabbed. There were no identification
papers on him, only a pocket full of subway tokens which, police
believed, had been used to weight down the body.

"Good heavens!" I said aloud. Several passengers raised their eyebrows.
I flushed, hurried out of the train and to my apartment where I fell
into my chair, shocked and shaking. No doubt the body was that of
Rumplestein. The poor little man! What did this mean? Could his story
conceivably have been true?

The knock on my door startled me. "Professor, are you home?" It was my
landlady. When I opened the door she handed me an envelope with my name
written on it in small, neat letters. "A little fellow with a beard gave
it to me early this morning, after you'd gone. He said to be sure you
got it. Then he ran away." She shook her head in obvious disapproval of
such actions.

After she left I tore open the envelope and read the contents.

"By the time you see this chances are excellent that I shall be dead.
However, that is of little importance. I have found the proof we
need--their distribution plant. It's an old warehouse. I am going there
to see if I cannot obtain concrete proof--perhaps a pocketful of tokens.
If I fail, you must carry on. Farewell, professor. It was a privilege
knowing you."

Beneath the message was an address which I recognized as being in one of
the less reputable sections of the city. There was no signature.

What to do! What to do! I no longer doubted the truth of little Mr.
Rumplestein-O'Grady's story. But what to do about it? I considered going
to the warehouse, but the thought of high adventure sends nothing but
ennui coursing through my veins. Besides, there was undoubtedly some
element of danger in that course. The police! Naturally! They would know
how to deal with this situation and perhaps even avenge poor Mr.
Rumplestein's death. Filled with righteous anger and indignation I
hurried out and went to the nearest police station.

In retrospect I can understand the reaction of the desk sergeant to my
wild-eyed claim that the city was in imminent danger of invasion and he
must do something about it at once!

"How much, now, have ye had to drink?" he asked calmly.

When I swore that I was as sober as he, he grew purple with rage and
threatened to have me thrown into jail for insulting a police officer
unless I disappeared immediately.

All that night and the next day I tried to reach someone in authority
with my information. The New York City police were admirably calm about
my information. My actions and voice, however, seemed to disturb them
greatly. When I insisted they investigate the warehouse, they told me
the officer on the beat would do so in good time. When I suggested they
examine the tokens found on the body they informed me that these had
been turned over to the Property Clerk and if not claimed within ninety
days would be given to the PAL.

As a last desperate measure I went to the New York office of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and presented myself to one of the Federal men.
I told him my story. He looked at me calmly, then pored through a thick
book on his desk. He closed one eye thoughtfully and peered at me
through the other.

"There's really nothing," he said, "that we can do about it."

"Don't you believe me?"

"That has nothing to do with it. According to regulations this is
strictly a municipal affair. It doesn't come within the jurisdiction of
the FBI. And we wouldn't want to step on municipal toes." He closed the
book smartly.

I was crushed. I couldn't believe it. Finally I said, "_Serum est
cavendi tempus in mediis malis!_"

"What?"

"'It is too late to be cautious when in the very midst of dangers.'
Seneca said that two thousand years ago."

The young man rose and nodded towards the door. "Good day, professor.
And an _E pluribus unum_ to you!"

That was an hour ago.
