
A DISAPPOINTMENT, AN ACCIDENT, AND A PERPLEXING RETURN.

But the trip to York produced no fruit!  Some of the tradespeople did,
indeed, remember old Mrs Willis and her granddaughter, but had neither
seen nor heard of them since they left.  They knew very little about
them personally, and nothing whatever of their previous history, as they
had stayed only a short time in the town, and had been remarkably shy
and uncommunicative--the result, it was thought, of their having "come
down" in life.

Much disappointed, Slidder and I returned to London.

"It is fortunate that we did not tell granny the object of our trip, so
that she will be spared the disappointment that we have met with," said
I, as the train neared the metropolis.

My companion made no reply; he had evidently taken the matter much to
heart.

We were passing rapidly through the gradually thickening groups of
streets and houses which besprinkle the circumference of the great city,
and sat gazing contemplatively on back yards, chimney cans, unfinished
suburban residences, pieces of waste ground, back windows, internal
domestic arrangements, etcetera, as they flew past in rapid succession.

"Robin," said I, breaking silence again, and using the name which had by
that time grown familiar, "have you made up your mind yet about taking
service with Dr McTougall?  Now that we have got Mrs Jones engaged and
paid to look after granny, she will be able to get on pretty well
without you, and you shall have time to run over and see her
frequently."

"H'm!  I don't quite see my way," returned the boy, with a solemn look.
"You see, sir, if it was a page-in-buttons I was to be, to attend on
_my_ young lady the guv'ness, I might take it into consideration; but to
go into buttons an' blue merely to open a door an' do the purlite to
wisitors, an' mix up things with bad smells by way of a change--why,
d'ee see, the prospec' ain't temptin'.  Besides, I hate blue.  The
buttons is all well enough, but blue reminds me so of the bobbies that I
don't think I could surwive it long--indeed I don't!"

"Robin," said I reproachfully, "I'm grieved at your indifference to
friendship."

"'Ow so, sir?"

"Have you not mentioned merely your objections and the disadvantages,
without once weighing against them the advantages?"

"Vich is--?"

"Which are," said I, "being under the same roof with _me_ and with
Punch, to say nothing of your young lady!"

"Ah, to be sure!  Vell, but I did think of all that, only, don't you
see, I'll come to be under the same roof with you all in course o' time
w'en you've got spliced an' set up for--"

"Slidder," said I sternly, and losing patience under the boy's
presumption, "you must never again dare to speak of such a thing.  You
know very well that it is quite out of the question, and--and--you'll
get into a careless way of referring to such a possibility among
servants or--"

"No; honour bright!" exclaimed Slidder, with, for the first time, a
somewhat abashed look in his face; "I wouldn't for the wealth of the
Injies say a word to nobody wotsomever.  It's only atween ourselves that
I wentur's to--"

"Well, well; enough," said I; "don't in future venture to do it even
between ourselves, if you care to retain my friendship.  Now.  Robin," I
added, as the train slowed, "of course you'll not let a hint of our
reason for going north pass your lips to poor granny or any one; and
give her the old message, that I'll be along to see her soon."

It was pleasant to return to such a hearty reception as I met with from
the doctor's family.  Although my absence had been but for a few days,
the children came crowding and clinging round me, declaring that it
seemed like weeks since I left them.  The doctor himself was, as usual,
exuberant, and his wife extremely kind.  Miss Blythe, I found, had not
yet returned, and was not expected for some time.

But the reception accorded me by the doctor and his family was as
nothing to the wild welcome lavished upon me by Dumps.  That loving
creature came more nearly to the bursting-point than I had ever seen him
before.  His spirit was obviously much too large for his body.  He was
romping with the McTougall baby when I entered.  The instant he heard my
voice in the hall he uttered a squeal--almost a yell--of delight, and
came down the two flights of stairs in a wriggling heap, his legs taking
comparatively little part in the movement.  His paws, when first applied
to the wax-cloth of the nursery floor, slipped as if on ice, without
communicating motion.  On the stairs, his ears, tail, head, hair, heart,
and tongue conspired to convulse him.  Only when he had fairly reached
me did the hind-legs do their duty, as he bounced and wriggled high into
air.  Powers of description are futile; vision alone is of any avail in
such a case.  Are dogs mortal?  Is such overflowing wealth of affection
extinguished at death?  Pshaw! thought I, the man who thinks so shows
that he is utterly void of the merest rudiments of common sense!

I did not mention the object of my visit to York to the doctor or his
wife.  Indeed, that natural shyness and reticence which I have found it
impossible to shake off--except when writing to you, good reader--would
in any case have prevented my communicating much of my private affairs
to them, but particularly in a case like this, which seemed to be
assuming the aspect of a wildly romantic hunt after a lost young girl,
more like the plot of a sensational novel than an occurrence in
every-day life.

It may be remarked here that the doctor had indeed understood from Mrs
Willis that she had somehow lost a granddaughter; but being rather fussy
in his desires and efforts to comfort people in distress, he had failed
to rouse the sympathy which would have drawn out details from the old
woman.  I therefore merely gave him to understand that the business
which had called me to the north of England had been unsuccessful, and
then changed the subject.

Meanwhile Dumps returned to the nursery to resume the game of romps
which I had interrupted.

After a general "scrimmage," in which the five chips of the elder
McTougall had joined, without regard to any concerted plan, Dolly
suddenly shouted "'Top!"

"What are we to stop for?" demanded Harry, whose powers of
self-restraint were not strong.

"Want a 'est!" said Dolly, sitting down on a stool with a resolute
plump.

"Rest quick, then, and let's go on again," said Harry, throwing himself
into a small chair, while Job and Jenny sprawled on an ottoman in the
window.

Seeing that her troops appeared to be exhausted, and that a period of
repose had set in, the tall nurse thought this a fitting opportunity to
retire for a short recreative talk with the servants in the kitchen.

"Now be good, child'n," she said, in passing out, "and don't 'urt poor
little Dumps."

"Oh no," chorused the five, while, with faces of intense and real
solemnity, they assured nurse that they would not hurt Dumps for the
world.

"We'll be _so_ dood!" remarked Dolly, as the door closed--and she really
meant it.

"What'll we do to him now?" asked Harry, whose patience was exhausted.

"Tut off him's head," cried Dolly, clapping her fat little hands.

"No, burn him for a witch," said Jenny.

"Oh no! ve'll skeese him flat till he's bu'sted," suggested Job.

But Jenny thought that would be too cruel, and Harry said it would be
too tame.

It must not be supposed that these and several other appalling tortures
were meant to be really attempted.  As Job afterwards said, it was only
play.

"Oh!  I'll tell you what we'll do," said Jack, who was considerably in
advance of the others in regard to education, "we'll turn him into Joan
of Arc."

"What's Joan of Arc?" asked Job.

"It isn't a what--it's a who," cried Jack, laughing.

"Is it like Noah's Ark?" inquired Dolly.

"No, no; it's a lady who lived in France, an' thought she was sent to
deliver her country from--from--I don't know all what, an' put on men's
clo'es an' armour, an' went out to battle, an' was burnt."

"Bu'nt!" shouted Dolly, with sparkling eyes; "oh, what fun!--We're goin'
to bu'n you, Pompey."  They called him by Lilly Blythe's name.

Dumps, who sat in a confused heap in a corner, panting, seemed
regardless of the fate that awaited him.

"But where shall we find armour?" said Harry.

"_I_ know," exclaimed Job, going to the fireplace, and seizing the lid
of a saucepan which stood on the hearth near enough to the tall fender
to be within reach, "here's somethin'."

"Capital--a breastplate!  Just the thing!" cried Jack, seizing it, and
whistling to Dumps.

"And here's a first-rate helmet," said Harry, producing a toy drum with
the heads out.

The strong contrast between my doggie's conditions of grigginess and
humiliation has already been referred to.  Aware that something unusual
was pending, he crawled towards Jack with every hair trailing in lowly
submission.  Poor Joan of Arc might have had a happier fate if she had
been influenced by a similar spirit!

"Now, sir, stand up on your hind-legs."

The already well-trained and obedient creature obeyed.

"There," he said, tying the lid to his hairy bosom; "and there," he
continued, thrusting the drum on his meek head, which it fitted exactly;
"now, Madame Joan, come away--the fagots are ready."

With Harry's aid, and to the ineffable joy of Jenny, Job, and Dolly, the
little dog was carefully bound to the leg of a small table, and bits of
broken toys--of which there were heaps--were piled round it for fagots.

"Don't be c'uel," said Dolly tenderly.

"Oh no, we won't be cruel," said Jack, who was really anxious to
accomplish the whole execution without giving pain to the victim.  The
better to arrange some of the fastenings he clambered on the table.
Dolly, always anxious to observe what was being done, attempted to do
the same.  Jenny, trying to prevent her, pulled at her skirts, and among
them they pulled the table over on themselves.  It fell with a dire
crash.

Of course there were cries and shouts from the children, but these were
overtopped and quickly silenced by the hideous yellings of Dumps.  Full
many a time had the poor dog given yelp and yell in that nursery when
accidentally hurt, and as often had it wagged its forgiving tail and
licked the patting hands of sympathy; but now the yells were loud and
continuous, the patting hands were snapped at, and Dumps refused to be
comforted.  His piercing cries reached my study.  I sprang up-stairs and
dashed into the nursery, where the eccentric five were standing in a
group, with looks of self-condemning horror in their ten round eyes, and
almost equally expressive round mouths.

The reason was soon discovered--poor Dumps had got a hind-leg broken!

Having ascertained the fact, alleviated the pain as well as I could, and
bandaged the limb, I laid my doggie tenderly in the toy bed belonging to
Jenny's largest doll, which was quickly and heartily given up for the
occasion, the dispossessed doll being callously laid on a shelf in the
meantime.

It was really quite interesting to observe the effect of this accident
on the tender-hearted five.  They wept over Dumps most genuine tears.
They begged his pardon--implored his forgiveness--in the most earnest
tones and touching terms.  They took turn about in watching by his
sick-bed.  They held lint and lotion with superhuman solemnity while I
dressed his wounded limb, and they fed him with the most tender
solicitude.  In short, they came out quite in a new and sympathetic
light, and soon began to play at sick-nursing with each other.  This
involved a good deal of pretended sickness, and for a long time after
that it was no uncommon thing for visitors to the nursery to find three
of the five down with measles, whooping-cough, or fever, while the
fourth acted doctor, and the fifth nurse.

The event however, gave them a lesson in gentleness to dumb animals
which they never afterwards forgot, and which some of my boy readers
would do well to remember.  With a laudable effort to improve the
occasion, Mrs McTougall carefully printed in huge letters, and
elaborately illuminated the sentence, "Be kind to Doggie," and hung it
up in the nursery.  Thereupon cardboard, pencils, paints, and scissors
were in immediate demand, and soon after there appeared on the walls in
hideously bad but highly ornamental letters, the words "Be kind to
Cattie."  This was followed by "Be kind to Polly," which instantly
suggested "Be kind to Dolly."  And so, by one means or another, the
lesson of kindness was driven home.

Soon after this event Dr McTougall moved into a new house in the same
street; I became regularly established as his partner, and Robin Slidder
entered on his duties as page in buttons.  It is right to observe here
that, in deference to his prejudices, the material of his garments was
not blue, but dark grey.

It was distinctly arranged, however, that Robin was to go home, as he
called it, to be with Mrs Willis at nights.  On no other condition
would he agree to enter the doctor's service; and I found, on talking
over the subject with Mrs Willis herself, that she had become so fond
of the boy that it would have been sheer cruelty to part them.  In
short, it was a case of mutual love at first sight!  No two individuals
seemed more unlikely to draw together than the meek, gentle old lady and
the dashing, harum-scarum boy.  Yet so it was.

"My dear,"--she always spoke to me now as if I had been her son--"this
`waif,' as people would call him, has clearly been sent to me as a
comfort in the midst of all but overwhelming sorrow; and I believe, too,
that I have been sent to draw the dear boy to Jesus.  You should hear
what long and pleasant talks we have about Him, and the Bible, and the
`better land' sometimes."

"Indeed!  I am glad to hear you say so, granny, and also surprised,
because, although I believe the boy to be well disposed, I have seldom
been able to get him to open his lips to me on religious subjects."

"Ah! but he opens his dear lips to me, doctor, and reads to me many a
long chapter out of the blessed Word!"

"Reads!  Can he read?"

"Ay can he!--not so badly, considering that I only began to teach him
two or three months ago.  But he knew his letters when we began, and
could spell out a few words.  He's very quick, you see, and a dear boy!"

Soon afterwards we made this arrangement with Robin more convenient for
all parties, by bringing Mrs Willis over to a better lodging in one of
the small back streets not far from the doctor's new residence.

I now began to devote much of my time to the study of chemistry, not
only because it suited Dr McTougall that I should do so, but because I
had conceived a great liking for that science, and entertained some
thoughts of devoting myself to it almost exclusively.

In the various experiments connected therewith I was most ably, and, I
may add, delightedly, assisted by Robin Slidder.  I was also greatly
amused by, and induced to philosophise not a little on the peculiar cast
of the boy's mind.  The pleasure obviously afforded to him by the
uncertainty as to results in experiments was very great.  The
probability of a miscarriage created in him intense interest--I will not
say hope!  The ignorance of what was coming kept him in a constant
flutter of subdued excitement, and the astounding results (even
sometimes to myself) of some of my combinations, kept him in a perpetual
simmer of expectation.  But after long observation, I have come to the
deliberate conclusion that nothing whatever gave Robin such ineffable
joy as an explosion!  A crash, a burst, a general reduction of anything
to instantaneous and elemental ruin, was so dear to him that I verily
believe he would have taken his chance, and stood by, if I had proposed
to blow the roof off Dr McTougall's mansion.  Nay, I almost think that
if that remarkable waif had been set on a bombshell and blown to atoms,
he would have retired from this life in a state of supreme satisfaction.

While my mind was thus agreeably concentrated on the pursuit of science,
it received a rude, but pleasing, yet particularly distracting shock, by
the return of Lilly Blythe.  The extent to which this governess was
worshipped by the whole household was wonderful--almost idolatrous.
Need I say that I joined in the worship, and that Dumps and Robin
followed suit?  I think not.  And yet--there was something strange,
something peculiar, something unaccountable, about Miss Blythe's manner
which I could by no means understand.


