
A WONDERFUL DISCOVERY.

Slowly recovering consciousness, I found myself lying on the floor of a
waiting-room, with a gentleman bending over me.  Instantly recollecting
what had occurred, I endeavoured to start up, but was obliged to fall
back again.

"You must lie quiet sir," said the gentleman.  "You're not much hurt.
We will send you on, if you choose, by the train that is expected in a
few minutes."

"Is the elderly gentleman safe?"  I asked eagerly.

"Which elderly gentleman?  There were several in the train, but none are
injured, I believe, though some are much shaken.  Nobody has been
killed.  It has been quite a miraculous escape."

"Merciful--call it merciful, my dear sir," said I, looking upwards and
thanking God with all my heart for sparing my life.

Two days after that I lay on the drawing-room sofa in Hoboy Crescent.
Mr and Mrs McTougall had gone out.  So had the children, the forenoon
being fine.  Edith had remained at home, for reasons which she did not
see fit to divulge.  She sat beside me with one of her hands in mine.
It was all arranged between us by that time.

"Edith," said I after a short pause in our conversation, "I have long
wanted to tell you about a dear little old lady with whom Robin Slidder
and I have had much to do.  She's one of my poor patients, whom I have
not mentioned to you before, but I've heard something about her lately
which makes me wish to ask your advice--perhaps your aid--in a rather
curious search which I've been engaged in for a long time past."

"I will go for my work, John, and you shall tell me all about it," she
replied, rising.  "I shall be five or ten minutes in preparing it.  Can
you wait patiently?"

"Well, I'll try, though of course it will be like a separation of five
or ten years, but Dumps and I will solace each other in your absence.--
By the way, touch the bell as you pass.  I should like to see Robin, not
having had a talk with him since the accident."

When Robin appeared I asked him if he had seen the Slogger.

"No, sir, I 'aven't," replied Robin, with a somewhat cross look.  "That
there Slogger has played me false these two times.  Leastwise, though he
couldn't 'elp it the fust time, he's got to clear 'isself about the
second."

"You know where the Slogger lives, don't you?"  I asked.

"Oh yes, but it's a long, long way off, an' I durstn't go without leave,
an' since you was blowed up i' the train I've scarce 'ad a word with the
doctor--he's bin that busy through 'avin' your patients on 'is 'ands as
well as is own."

"Well, Robin, I give you leave to go.  Be off within this very hour, and
see that you bring me back some good news.  Now that we have reason to
believe the poor girl is in London, perhaps near us, I cannot rest until
we find her--or prove the scent to have been a false one.  Away with
you!"

As the boy went out, Edith came back with her work basket.

"I've been thinking," said I, as she sat down on a stool beside me,
"that before beginning my story, it would be well that you should
unburden your dear little heart of that family secret of yours which you
thought at first was a sufficient bar to our union.  But before you
begin, let me solemnly assure you that your revelations, whatever they
are, will utterly fail to move me.  Though you should declare yourself
to be the daughter of a thief, a costermonger, or a chimpanzee monkey--
though you should profess yourself to have been a charwoman, a
foundling, a Billingsgate fish-woman, or a female mountebank--my
feelings and resolves will remain the same.  Sufficient for me to know
that you are _you_, and that you are _mine_!--There, go on."

"Truly, then, if such be your feelings, there is no need of my going on,
or even beginning," she replied, with a smile, and yet with a touch of
sadness in her tone which made me grasp her hand.

"Ah, Edith!  I did not mean to hurt you by my jesting, and yet the
spirit of what I say is true--absolutely true."

"You did not hurt me, John; you merely brought to my remembrance my
great sorrow and--"

"Your great sorrow!"  I exclaimed in surprise, gazing at her smooth
young face.

"Yes, my great sorrow, and I was going to add, my loss.  But you shall
hear.  I have no family mystery to unfold.  All that I wished you to
know on that head was that I am without family altogether.  All are
dead.  I have no relation on earth--not one."

She said this with such deep pathos, while tears filled her eyes, that I
could not have uttered a word of comfort to save my life.

"And," she continued, "I am absolutely penniless.  These two points at
first made me repel you--at least, until I had explained them to you.
Now that you look upon them as such trifles I need say no more.  But the
loss to which I have referred is, I fear, irreparable.  You won't think
me selfish or tiresome if I go back to an early period of my history?"

"Selfish! tiresome!"  I repeated, "oh, Edith!"

"Well, then, many years ago my father and mother lived by the seashore
not far from Yarmouth.  They were poor.  My father gave lessons in
French, my mother taught music.  But they earned sufficient to support
themselves and my grandmother and me in comfort.  We were a _very_ happy
family, for we all loved God and tried to follow in the footsteps of
Jesus.  I gave them, indeed, a great deal of trouble at first, but He
overcame my stubborn heart at last, and then there was nothing to mar
the happiness of our lives.  But sickness came.  My father died.  My
mother tried to struggle on for a time, but could not earn enough; I
tried to help her by teaching, but had myself need of being taught.  At
last we changed our residence, in hopes of getting more remunerative
employment, but in this we failed.  Then my mother fell sick and died."

She stopped at this point.

"Oh, Edith! this makes you doubly dear," said I, drawing her nearer to
me.

In a few minutes she continued--

"Being left alone now with my grandmother, I resolved to go to London
and try to find employment in the great city.  We had not been long
here, and I had not yet obtained employment when an extraordinary event
occurred which has ever since embittered my life.  I went out for a walk
one day, and was robbed."

"How strange!"  I exclaimed, half rising from the sofa.  "What a curious
coincidence!"

"What!  How?  What do you mean?" she asked, looking at me in surprise.

"Never mind just now.  When I come to tell you _my_ story you will
understand.  There is a robbery of a young girl in it too.--Go on.--"

"Well, then, as I said, I was robbed by a man and a boy.  I had dear
little Pompey with me at the time, and that is the way I came to lose
him.  But the terrible thing was that an accident befell me just after I
was robbed, and I never saw my darling grandmother again--"

"Coincidence!"  I exclaimed, starting up, as a sudden thought was forced
upon my mind, and my heart began to beat violently, "this is _more_ than
a coincidence; and yet--it cannot be--pooh! impossible! ridiculous!  My
mind is wandering."

I sank back somewhat exhausted, for I had been considerably weakened by
my accident.  Edith was greatly alarmed at my words and looks, and
blamed herself for having talked too much to me in my comparatively weak
condition.

"No, you have not talked too much to me.  You cannot do that, dear
_Edie_," I said.

It was now her turn to look bewildered.

"_Edie_!" she echoed.  "Why--why do you call me Edie?"

I covered my eyes with my hand, that she might not see their expression.

"There can be no doubt _now_," I thought; "but why that name of Blythe?"
Then aloud:

"It is a pretty contraction for Edith, is it not?  Don't you like it?"

"Like it?  Yes.  Oh, how much!  But--but--"

"Well, Edie," I said, laying powerful restraint on myself, and looking
her calmly in the face, "you must bear with me to-night.  You know that
weakness sometimes causes men to act unaccountably.  Forgive me for
interrupting you.  I won't do it again, as the naughty boys say.--Go on,
dear, with your story."

I once more covered my eyes with my hand, as if to shade them from the
light, and listened, though I could scarcely conceal my agitation.

"The name of Edie," she continued, "is that by which my darling granny
always called me, and it sounded so familiar--yet so strange--coming
from your lips.  But, after all, it is a natural abbreviation.  Well, as
I said, an accident befell me.  I had burst away from the thieves in a
state of wild horror, and was attempting to rush across a crowded
thoroughfare, when a cab knocked me down.  I felt a sharp pang of pain,
heard a loud shout and then all was dark.

"On recovering I found myself lying in one of the beds of a hospital.
My collar-bone had been broken, and I was very feverish--scarcely
understood where I was, and felt a dull sense of oppression on my brain.
They spoke to me, and asked my name.  I don't remember distinctly how I
pronounced it, but I recollect being somewhat amused at their
misunderstanding what I said, and calling me Miss Eva Bright!  I felt
too ill to correct them at the time, and afterwards became so accustomed
to Eva--for I was a very long time there--that I did not think it worth
while to correct the mistake.  This was very foolish and unfortunate,
for long afterwards, when I began to get well enough to think
coherently, and sent them to let granny know where I was, they of course
went with the name of Eva Bright.  It was very stupid, no doubt, but I
was so weak and listless after my long and severe illness that this
never once occurred to me.  As it turned out, however, there would have
been no difference in the result, for my darling had left her lodging
and gone no one knew where.  This terrible news brought on a relapse,
and for many weeks, I believe, my life hung on a thread.  But that
thread was in the hand of God, and I had no fear."

"What is the name, Edie, of the grandmother you have lost?"  I asked, in
a low, tremulous voice.

"Willis--but--why do you start so?  Now I am quite _sure_ you have been
more severely hurt than you imagine, and that my talking so much is not
good for you."

"No--Edie--no.  Go on," I said firmly.

"I have little more to tell," she continued.  "Dear Dr McTougall had
attended me in the hospital, and took a fancy to me.  When I was well
enough to leave, he took me home to be governess to his children.  But
my situation has been an absolute sinecure as yet, for he says I am not
strong enough to work, and won't let me do anything.  It was not till
after I had left the hospital that I told my kind friend the mistake
that had been made about my name, and about my lost grandmother.  He has
been very kind about that, and assisted me greatly at first in my search
for her.  But there are so many--so many people of the name of Willis in
London--old ladies too!  We called together on so many that he got tired
of it at last.  Of course I wrote to various people at York, and to the
place where we had lived before going there, but nothing came of it, and
now--my hopes have long ago died out--that is to say, almost--but I
still continue to make inquiries."

She paused here for some time, and I did not move or speak, being so
stunned by my discovery that I knew not what to say, and feared to
reveal the truth to Edith too suddenly.  Then I knew by the gentle way
in which she moved that she thought I had fallen asleep.  I was glad of
this, and remained quietly thinking.

There was no doubt now in my mind that Edie Blythe was this lost
granddaughter of old Mrs Willis, but the name still remained an
insoluble mystery.

"Edie," said I abruptly, "_is_ your name Blythe?"

"Of course it is," she said, in startled surprise, "why should you doubt
it?"

"I _don't_ doubt it," said I, "but I'm sorely puzzled.  Why is it not
Willis?"

"Why?" exclaimed Edie, with a little laugh, "because I am the daughter
of Granny Willis's daughter--not of her son.  My father's name was
Blythe!"

The simplicity of this explanation, and my gross stupidity in quietly
assuming from the beginning, as a matter of course, that the lost Edie's
name was the same as her grandmother's, burst upon me in its full force.
The delusion had been naturally perpetuated by Mrs Willis never
speaking of her lost darling except by her Christian name.  For a few
seconds I was silent, then I exploded in almost an hysterical fit of
laughter, in the midst of which I was interrupted by the sudden entrance
of my doggie, who had returned from a walk with Robin, and began to
gambol round his mistress as if he had not seen her for years.

"Oh, sir!  I say!  I've diskivered all about--"

Little Slidder had rushed excitedly into the room, but stopped abruptly
on observing Miss Blythe, who was looking from him to me with intense
surprise.

Before another word could be said, a servant entered:--

"Please, Miss Blythe, Doctor McTougall wishes to see you in his study."

She left us at once.

"Now, Robin," said I, with emphasis, "sit down on that chair, opposite
me, and let's hear all about it."

The excited boy obeyed, and Dumps, leaping on another chair beside him,
sat down to listen, with ears erect, as if he knew what was coming.

"Oh, sir! you never--such a go!" began Robin, rubbing his hands together
slowly as he spoke.  "The Slogger! he twigged 'er at once.  You'll open
your eyes so wide that you'll never git 'em shut again, w'en you hears.
No, I never _did_ see such a lark!  Edie's found!  I've seen her!  She
ain't the Queen--oh no; nor yet one o' the Queen's darters--by no means;
nor yet a duchess--oh dear no, though she's like one.  Who d'ye think
she is?  But you'll never guess."

"I'll try," said I, with a quiet smile, for I had subdued myself by that
time.

"Try away then--who?"

"Miss Edith Blythe!"

On hearing this, little Slidder's eyes began to open and glisten till
they outshone his own buttons.

"Why--how--ever--did you come to guess it?" gasped the boy, on
recovering himself.

"I did not guess it, I found it out.  Do you suppose that nobody can
find out things except Sloggers and pages in buttons?"

"Oh, sir, _do_ tell!" entreated the boy.

I did tell, and after we had each told all that we knew, we mentally
hugged ourselves, and grew so facetious over it that we began to address
Dumps personally, to that intelligent creature's intense satisfaction.

"Now, Robin," said I, "we must break this _very_ cautiously to the old
lady and Miss Blythe."

"Oh, in course--we-r-y cautiously," assented the urchin, with
inconceivable earnestness.

"Well, then, off you go and fetch my greatcoat.  We'll go visit Mrs
Willis at once."

"At vunce," echoed Robin, as he ran out of the room, with blazing cheeks
and sparkling eyes.

"Lilly," said Dr McTougall, as Edith entered his consulting-room.  "I'm
just off to see a patient who is very ill, and there is another who is
not quite so ill, but who also wants to see me.  I'll send you to the
latter as my female assistant, if you will go.  Her complaint is chiefly
mental.  In fact, she needs comfort more than physic, and I know of no
one who is comparable to you in that line.  Can you go?"

"Certainly, with pleasure.  I'll go at once."

"Her name," said the doctor, "is Willis.--By the way, that reminds me of
your loss, dear girl," he continued in a lower tone, as he gently took
her hand, "but I would not again arouse your hopes.  You know how many
old women of this name we have seen without finding her."

"Yes, I know too well," returned poor Edith, while the tears gathered in
her eyes.  "I have long ago given up all hope."

But notwithstanding her statement Edith had not quite given way to
despair.  In spite of herself her heart fluttered a little as she sped
on this mission to the abode of _another_ old Mrs Willis.


