
The youth hesitated. "It is not a secret project," he muttered. "Why
should it be secret?"

"You tell me."

The youth worked his jaws and rocked his head from side to side in the
Fusty gesture of uncertainty. "There is nothing to conceal," he said.
"We merely construct a passenger liner."

"Then you don't mind if I look over the drawings," said Retief. "Who
knows? Maybe some day I'll want to reserve a suite for the trip out."

The youth turned and disappeared. Retief grinned at the oldster. "Went
for his big brother, I guess," he said. "I have a feeling I won't get
to study these in peace here. Mind if I copy them?"

"Willingly, light-footed one," said the old Fustian. "And mine is the
shame for the discourtesy of youth."

Retief took out a tiny camera, flipped a copying lens in place, leafed
through the drawings, clicking the shutter.

"A plague on these youths," said the oldster, "who grow more virulent
day by day."

"Why don't you elders clamp down?"

"Agile are they and we are slow of foot. And this unrest is new.
Unknown in my youth was such insolence."

"The police--"

"Bah!" the ancient rumbled. "None have we worthy of the name, nor have
we needed ought ere now."

"What's behind it?"

"They have found leaders. The spiv, Slock, is one. And I fear they plot
mischief." He pointed to the window. "They come, and a Soft One with
them."

Retief pocketed the camera, glanced out the window. A pale-featured
Groaci with an ornately decorated crest stood with the youths, who eyed
the hut, then started toward it.

"That's the military attache of the Groaci Embassy," Retief said. "I
wonder what he and the boys are cooking up together?"

"Naught that augurs well for the dignity of Fust," the oldster rumbled.
"Flee, agile one, while I engage their attentions."

"I was just leaving," Retief said. "Which way out?"

"The rear door," the Fustian gestured with a stubby member. "Rest well,
stranger on these shores." He moved to the entrance.

"Same to you, pop," said Retief. "And thanks."

He eased through the narrow back entrance, waited until voices were
raised at the front of the shed, then strolled off toward the gate.
