
A stolid crowd filled the low-ceilinged banquet hall. Retief scanned
the tables for the pale blobs of Terrestrial faces, dwarfed by the
giant armored bodies of the Fustians. Across the room Magnan fluttered
a hand. Retief headed toward him. A low-pitched vibration filled the
air: the rumble of subsonic Fustian music.

Retief slid into his place beside Magnan. "Sorry to be late, Mr.
Ambassador."

"I'm honored that you chose to appear at all," said Magnan coldly. He
turned back to the Fustian on his left.

"Ah, yes, Mr. Minister," he said. "Charming, most charming. So joyous."

The Fustian looked at him, beady-eyed. "It is the _Lament of
Hatching_," he said; "our National Dirge."

"Oh," said Magnan. "How interesting. Such a pleasing balance of
instruments--"

"It is a droon solo," said the Fustian, eyeing the Terrestrial
Ambassador suspiciously.

"Why don't you just admit you can't hear it," Retief whispered loudly.
"And if I may interrupt a moment--"

Magnan cleared his throat. "Now that our Mr. Retief has arrived,
perhaps we could rush right along to the Sponsorship ceremonies."

"This group," said Retief, leaning across Magnan, "the SCARS. How much
do you know about them, Mr. Minister?"

"Nothing at all," the huge Fustian elder rumbled. "For my taste, all
Youths should be kept penned with the livestock until they grow a
carapace to tame their irresponsibility."

"We mustn't lose sight of the importance of channeling youthful
energies," said Magnan.

"Labor gangs," said the minister. "In my youth we were indentured to
the dredge-masters. I myself drew a muck sledge."

"But in these modern times," put in Magnan, "surely it's incumbent on
us to make happy these golden hours."

The minister snorted. "Last week I had a golden hour. They set upon me
and pelted me with overripe stench-fruit."

"But this was merely a manifestation of normal youthful frustrations,"
cried Magnan. "Their essential tenderness--"

"You'd not find a tender spot on that lout yonder," the minister
said, pointing with a fork at a newly arrived Youth, "if you drilled
boreholes and blasted."
