
Retief whistled. "So the Youths aren't all as young as they look.
Somebody's been holding out on the rest of you Fustians!"

"The Soft One," Whonk said. "You laid him by the heels, Retief. I saw.
Produce him now."

"Hold on a minute, Whonk. It won't do you any good--"

Whonk winked broadly. "I must take my revenge!" he roared. "I shall
test the texture of the Soft One! His pulped remains will be scoured up
by the ramp-washers and mailed home in bottles!"

Retief whirled at a sound, caught up with the scuttling Yith fifty feet
away, hauled him back to Whonk.

"It's up to you, Whonk," he said. "I know how important ceremonial
revenge is to you Fustians. I will not interfere."

"Mercy!" Yith hissed, eye-stalks whipping in distress. "I claim
diplomatic immunity!"

"No diplomat am I," rumbled Whonk. "Let me see; suppose I start with
one of those obscenely active eyes--" He reached....

"I have an idea," said Retief brightly. "Do you suppose--just this
once--you could forego the ceremonial revenge if Yith promised to
arrange for a Groaci Surgical Mission to de-carapace you elders?"

"But," Whonk protested, "those eyes! What a pleasure to pluck them, one
by one!"

"Yess," hissed Yith, "I swear it! Our most expert surgeons ... platoons
of them, with the finest of equipment."

"I have dreamed of how it would be to sit on this one, to feel him
squash beneath my bulk...."

"Light as a whissle feather shall you dance," Yith whispered.
"Shell-less shall you spring in the joy of renewed youth--"

"Maybe just one eye," said Whonk grudgingly. "That would leave him
four."

"Be a sport," said Retief.

"Well."

"It's a deal then," said Retief. "Yith, on your word as a diplomat,
an alien, a soft-back and a skunk, you'll set up the mission. Groaci
surgical skill is an export that will net you more than armaments.
It will be a whissle feather in your cap--if you bring it off. And
in return, Whonk won't sit on you. And I won't prefer charges of
interference in the internal affairs of a free world."

Behind Whonk there was a movement. Slock, wriggling free of the
borrowed carapace, struggled to his feet ... in time for Whonk to seize
him, lift him high and head for the entry to the _Moss Rock_.

"Hey," Retief called. "Where are you going?"

"I would not deny this one his reward," called Whonk. "He hoped to
cruise in luxury. So be it."

"Hold on," said Retief. "That tub is loaded with titanite!"

"Stand not in my way, Retief. For this one in truth owes me a
vengeance."

Retief watched as the immense Fustian bore his giant burden up the ramp
and disappeared within the ship.

"I guess Whonk means business," he said to Yith, who hung in his grasp,
all five eyes goggling. "And he's a little too big for me to stop."

Whonk reappeared, alone, climbed down.

"What did you do with him?" said Retief. "Tell him you were going to--"

"We had best withdraw," said Whonk. "The killing radius of the drive is
fifty yards."

"You mean--"

"The controls are set for Groaci. Long-may-he-sleep."
