
"It was quite a bang," said Retief. "But I guess you saw it, too."

"No, confound it," Magnan said. "When I remonstrated with Hulk, or
Whelk--"

"Whonk."

"--the ruffian thrust me into an alley bound in my own cloak. I'll most
certainly complain to the Minister."

"How about the surgical mission?"

"A most generous offer," said Magnan. "Frankly, I was astonished. I
think perhaps we've judged the Groaci too harshly."

"I hear the Ministry of Youth has had a rough morning of it," said
Retief. "And a lot of rumors are flying to the effect that Youth Groups
are on the way out."

Magnan cleared his throat, shuffled papers. "I--ah--have explained to
the press that last night's--ah--"

"Fiasco."

"--affair was necessary in order to place the culprits in an untenable
position. Of course, as to the destruction of the VIP vessel and the
presumed death of, uh, Slop."

"The Fustians understand," said Retief. "Whonk wasn't kidding about
ceremonial vengeance."

"The Groaci had been guilty of gross misuse of diplomatic privilege,"
said Magnan. "I think that a note--or perhaps an Aide Memoire: less
formal...."

"The _Moss Rock_ was bound for Groaci," said Retief. "She was already
in her transit orbit when she blew. The major fragments will arrive on
schedule in a month or so. It should provide quite a meteorite display.
I think that should be all the _aide_ the Groaci's _memoires_ will need
to keep their tentacles off Fust."

"But diplomatic usage--"

"Then, too, the less that's put in writing, the less they can blame you
for, if anything goes wrong."

"That's true," said Magnan, lips pursed. "Now you're thinking
constructively, Retief. We may make a diplomat of you yet." He smiled
expansively.

"Maybe. But I refuse to let it depress me." Retief stood up. "I'm
taking a few weeks off ... if you have no objection, Mr. Ambassador. My
pal Whonk wants to show me an island down south where the fishing is
good."

"But there are some extremely important matters coming up," said
Magnan. "We're planning to sponsor Senior Citizen Groups--"

"Count me out. All groups give me an itch."

"Why, what an astonishing remark, Retief! After all, we diplomats are
ourselves a group."

"Uh-huh," Retief said.

Magnan sat quietly, mouth open, and watched as Retief stepped into the
hall and closed the door gently behind him.



