
Martha Graham crossed to the windows, looked at the lights far away
below. "I had no idea we'd climbed that far," she said. "It's like a
fairy city."

Mrs. Rush emitted a short, nervous laugh.

Ted Graham glanced around the room, thought: _If the rest of the house
is like this, it's worth fifty or sixty thousand_. He thought of the
trailer: _A good one, but not worth more than seven thousand_.

Uneasiness was like a neon sign flashing in his mind. "This seems
so ..." He shook his head.

"Would you like to see the rest of the house?" asked Rush.

Martha Graham turned from the window. "Oh, yes."

Ted Graham shrugged. _No harm in looking_, he thought.

When they returned to the living room, Ted Graham had doubled his
previous estimate on the house's value. His brain reeled with the
summing of it: a solarium with an entire ceiling covered by sun lamps,
an automatic laundry where you dropped soiled clothing down a chute,
took it washed and ironed from the other end ...

"Perhaps you and your wife would like to discuss it in private," said
Rush. "We will leave you for a moment."

And they were gone before Ted Graham could protest.

Martha Graham said, "Ted, I honestly never in my life dreamed--"

"Something's very wrong, honey."

"But, Ted--"

"This house is worth at least a hundred thousand dollars. Maybe more.
And they want to trade _this_--" he looked around him--"for a
seven-thousand-dollar trailer?"

"Ted, they're foreigners. And if they're so foolish they don't know the
value of this place, then why should--"

"I don't like it," he said. Again he looked around the room, recalled
the fantastic equipment of the house. "But maybe you're right."

He stared out at the city lights. They had a lacelike quality: tall
buildings linked by lines of flickering incandescence. Something like a
Roman candle shot skyward in the distance.

"Okay!" he said. "If they want to trade, let's go push the deal ..."

Abruptly, the house shuddered. The city lights blinked out. A humming
sound filled the air.

Martha Graham clutched her husband's arm. "Ted! Wha-- what was that?"

"I dunno." He turned. "Mr. Rush!"

No answer. Only the humming.

The door at the end of the room opened. A strange man came through it.
He wore a short toga-like garment of gray, metallic cloth belted at the
waist by something that glittered and shimmered through every color of
the spectrum. An aura of coldness and power emanated from him--a sense
of untouchable hauteur.
