
Mara and Jan stepped quickly ahead. Erick studied them critically as the
three of them walked slowly down the slope, onto the plain, toward the
towering black spires of the City.

"Jan," Erick said. "Take hold of her hand! Remember, you're going to
marry her; she's your bride. And Martian peasants think a lot of their
brides."

Jan was dressed in the short trousers and coat of the Martian farmer, a
knotted rope tied around his waist, a hat on his head to keep off the
sun. His skin was dark, colored by dye until it was almost bronze.

"You look fine," Erick said to him. He glanced at Mara. Her black hair
was tied in a knot, looped through a hollowed-out yuke bone. Her face
was dark, too, dark and lined with colored ceremonial pigment, green and
orange stripes across her cheeks. Earrings were strung through her ears.
On her feet were tiny slippers of perruh hide, laced around her ankles,
and she wore long translucent Martian trousers with a bright sash tied
around her waist. Between her small breasts a chain of stone beads
rested, good-luck charms for the coming marriage.

"All right," Erick said. He, himself, wore the flowing grey robe of a
Martian priest, dirty robes that were supposed to remain on him all his
life, to be buried around him when he died. "I think we'll get past the
guards. There should be heavy morning traffic on the road."

They walked on, the hard sand crunching under their feet. Against the
horizon they could see specks moving, other persons going toward the
City, farmers and peasants and merchants, bringing their crops and goods
to market.

"See the cart!" Mara exclaimed.

They were nearing a narrow road, two ruts worn into the sand. A Martian
hufa was pulling the cart, its great sides wet with perspiration, its
tongue hanging out. The cart was piled high with bales of cloth, rough
country cloth, hand dipped. A bent farmer urged the hufa on.

"And there." She pointed, smiling.

A group of merchants riding small animals were moving along behind the
cart, Martians in long robes, their faces hidden by sand masks. On each
animal was a pack, carefully tied on with rope. And beyond the
merchants, plodding dully along, were peasants and farmers in an endless
procession, some riding carts or animals, but mostly on foot.

Mara and Jan and Erick joined the line of people, melting in behind the
merchants. No one noticed them; no one looked up or gave any sign. The
march continued as before. Neither Jan nor Mara said anything to each
other. They walked a little behind Erick, who paced with a certain
dignity, a certain bearing becoming his position.

Once he slowed down, pointing up at the sky. "Look," he murmured, in the
Martian hill dialect. "See that?"

Two black dots circled lazily. Martian patrol craft, the military on the
outlook for any sign of unusual activity. War was almost ready to break
out with Terra. Any day, almost any moment.

"We'll be just in time," Erick said. "Tomorrow will be too late. The
last ship will have left Mars."

"I hope nothing stops us," Mara said. "I want to get back home when
we're through."
