
Erick broke off. Two black-clad Leiters were coming along the inside of
the wall, strolling together with their hands behind their backs. They
noticed the three who stood in the corner by the warehouses and stopped.

"Go," Erick muttered. "And be back here at sundown." He smiled grimly.
"Or never come back."

Each went off a different way, walking quickly without looking back. The
Leiters watched them go. "The little bride was quite lovely," one
Leiter said. "Those hill people have the stamp of nobility in their
blood, from the old times."

"A very lucky young peasant to possess her," the other said. They went
on. Erick looked after them, still smiling a little. Then he joined the
surging mass of people that milled eternally through the streets of the
City.

At dusk they met outside the gate. The sun was soon to set, and the air
had turned thin and frigid. It cut through their clothing like knives.

Mara huddled against Jan, trembling and rubbing her bare arms.

"Well?" Erick said. "Did you both succeed?"

Around them peasants and merchants were pouring from the entrance,
leaving the City to return to their farms and villages, starting the
long trip back across the plain toward the hills beyond. None of them
noticed the shivering girl and the young man and the old priest standing
by the wall.

"Mine's in place," Jan said. "On the other side of the City, on the
extreme edge. Buried by a well."

"Mine's in the industrial section," Mara whispered, her teeth
chattering. "Jan, give me something to put over me! I'm freezing."

"Good," Erick said. "Then the three coils should trisect dead center, if
the models were correct." He looked up at the darkening sky. Already,
stars were beginning to show. Two dots, the evening patrol, moved slowly
toward the horizon. "Let's hurry. It won't be long."

They joined the line of Martians moving along the road, away from the
City. Behind them the City was losing itself in the sombre tones of
night, its black spires disappearing into darkness.

They walked silently with the country people until the flat ridge of
dead trees became visible on the horizon. Then they left the road and
turned off, walking toward the trees.

"Almost time!" Erick said. He increased his pace, looking back at Jan
and Mara impatiently.

"Come on!"

They hurried, making their way through the twilight, stumbling over
rocks and dead branches, up the side of the ridge. At the top Erick
halted, standing with his hands on his hips, looking back.

"See," he murmured. "The City. The last time we'll ever see it this
way."

"Can I sit down?" Mara said. "My feet hurt me."

Jan pulled at Erick's sleeve. "Hurry, Erick! Not much time left." He
laughed nervously. "If everything goes right we'll be able to look at
it--forever."

"But not like this," Erick murmured. He squatted down, snapping his case
open. He took some tubes and wiring out and assembled them together on
the ground, at the peak of the ridge. A small pyramid of wire and
plastic grew, shaped by his expert hands.

At last he grunted, standing up. "All right."

"Is it pointed directly at the City?" Mara asked anxiously, looking down
at the pyramid.

Erick nodded. "Yes, it's placed according--" He stopped, suddenly
stiffening. "Get back! It's time! _Hurry!_"

Jan ran, down the far side of the slope, away from the City, pulling
Mara with him. Erick came quickly after, still looking back at the
distant spires, almost lost in the night sky.

"Down."

Jan sprawled out, Mara beside him, her trembling body pressed against
his. Erick settled down into the sand and dead branches, still trying to
see. "I want to see it," he murmured. "A miracle. I want to see--"

A flash, a blinding burst of violet light, lit up the sky. Erick clapped
his hands over his eyes. The flash whitened, growing larger, expanding.
Suddenly there was a roar, and a furious hot wind rushed past him,
throwing him on his face in the sand. The hot dry wind licked and seared
at them, crackling the bits of branches into flame. Mara and Jan shut
their eyes, pressed tightly together.

"God--" Erick muttered.

The storm passed. They opened their eyes slowly. The sky was still alive
with fire, a drifting cloud of sparks that was beginning to dissipate
with the night wind. Erick stood up unsteadily, helping Jan and Mara to
their feet. The three of them stood, staring silently across the dark
waste, the black plain, none of them speaking.

The City was gone.

At last Erick turned away. "That part's done," he said. "Now the rest!
Give me a hand, Jan. There'll be a thousand patrol ships around here in
a minute."

"I see one already," Mara said, pointing up. A spot winked in the sky, a
rapidly moving spot. "They're coming, Erick." There was a throb of chill
fear in her voice.

"I know." Erick and Jan squatted on the ground around the pyramid of
tubes and plastic, pulling the pyramid apart. The pyramid was fused,
fused together like molten glass. Erick tore the pieces away with
trembling fingers. From the remains of the pyramid he pulled something
forth, something he held up high, trying to make it out in the darkness.
Jan and Mara came close to see, both staring up intently, almost without
breathing.

"There it is," Erick said. "There!"
