
In his hand was a globe, a small transparent globe of glass. Within the
glass something moved, something minute and fragile, spires almost too
small to be seen, microscopic, a complex web swimming within the hollow
glass globe. A web of spires. A City.

Erick put the globe into the case and snapped it shut. "Let's go," he
said. They began to lope back through the trees, back the way they had
come before. "We'll change in the car," he said as they ran. "I think we
should keep these clothes on until we're actually inside the car. We
still might encounter someone."

"I'll be glad to get my own clothing on again," Jan said. "I feel funny
in these little pants."

"How do you think I feel?" Mara gasped. "I'm freezing in this, what
there is of it."

"All young Martian brides dress that way," Erick said. He clutched the
case tightly as they ran. "I think it looks fine."

"Thank you," Mara said, "but it is cold."

"What do you suppose they'll think?" Jan asked. "They'll assume the City
was destroyed, won't they? That's certain."

"Yes," Erick said. "They'll be sure it was blown up. We can count on
that. And it will be damn important to us that they think so!"

"The car should be around here, someplace," Mara said, slowing down.

"No. Farther on," Erick said. "Past that little hill over there. In the
ravine, by the trees. It's so hard to see where we are."

"Shall I light something?" Jan said.

"No. There may be patrols around who--"

He halted abruptly. Jan and Mara stopped beside him. "What--" Mara
began.

A light glimmered. Something stirred in the darkness. There was a sound.

"Quick!" Erick rasped. He dropped, throwing the case far away from him,
into the bushes. He straightened up tensely.

A figure loomed up, moving through the darkness, and behind it came more
figures, men, soldiers in uniform. The light flashed up brightly,
blinding them. Erick closed his eyes. The light left him, touching Mara
and Jan, standing silently together, clasping hands. Then it flicked
down to the ground and around in a circle.

A Leiter stepped forward, a tall figure in black, with his soldiers
close behind him, their guns ready. "You three," the Leiter said. "Who
are you? Don't move. Stand where you are."

He came up to Erick, peering at him intently, his hard Martian face
without expression. He went all around Erick, examining his robes, his
sleeves.

"Please--" Erick began in a quavering voice, but the Leiter cut him off.

"I'll do the talking. Who are you three? What are you doing here? Speak
up."

"We--we are going back to our village," Erick muttered, staring down,
his hands folded. "We were in the City, and now we are going home."

One of the soldiers spoke into a mouthpiece. He clicked it off and put
it away.

"Come with me," the Leiter said. "We're taking you in. Hurry along."

"In? Back to the City?"

One of the soldiers laughed. "The City is gone," he said. "All that's
left of it you can put in the palm of your hand."

"But what happened?" Mara said.

"No one knows. Come on, hurry it up!"

There was a sound. A soldier came quickly out of the darkness. "A Senior
Leiter," he said. "Coming this way." He disappeared again.
