
For a long time there was silence. Thacher stared at Erickson. The older
man was leaning back in his chair, sipping a little of his drink. Mara
and Jan were silent.

"So you didn't destroy the City," Thacher said. "You didn't destroy it
at all. You shrank it down and put it in a glass globe, in a
paperweight. And now you're salesmen again, with a sample case of office
supplies!"

Erickson smiled. He opened the briefcase and reaching into it he brought
out the glass globe paperweight. He held it up, looking into it. "Yes,
we stole the City from the Martians. That's how we got by the lie
detector. It was true that we knew nothing about a _destroyed_ City."

"But why?" Thacher said. "Why steal a City? Why not merely bomb it?"

"Ransom," Mara said fervently, gazing into the globe, her dark eyes
bright. "Their biggest City, half of their Council--in Erick's hand!"

"Mars will have to do what Terra asks," Erickson said. "Now Terra will
be able to make her commercial demands felt. Maybe there won't even be a
war. Perhaps Terra will get her way without fighting." Still smiling, he
put the globe back into the briefcase and locked it.

"Quite a story," Thacher said. "What an amazing process, reduction of
size-- A whole City reduced to microscopic dimensions. Amazing. No
wonder you were able to escape. With such daring as that, no one could
hope to stop you."

He looked down at the briefcase on the floor. Underneath them the jets
murmured and vibrated evenly, as the ship moved through space toward
distant Terra.

"We still have quite a way to go," Jan said. "You've heard our story,
Thacher. Why not tell us yours? What sort of line are you in? What's
your business?"

"Yes," Mara said. "What do you do?"

"What do I do?" Thacher said. "Well, if you like, I'll show you." He
reached into his coat and brought out something. Something that flashed
and glinted, something slender. A rod of pale fire.

The three stared at it. Sickened shock settled over them slowly.

Thacher held the rod loosely, calmly, pointing it at Erickson. "We knew
you three were on this ship," he said. "There was no doubt of that. But
we did not know what had become of the City. My theory was that the City
had not been destroyed at all, that something else had happened to it.
Council instruments measured a sudden loss of mass in that area, a
decrease equal to the mass of the City. Somehow the City had been
spirited away, not destroyed. But I could not convince the other Council
Leiters of it. I had to follow you alone."

Thacher turned a little, nodding to the men sitting at the bar. The men
rose at once, coming toward the table.

"A very interesting process you have. Mars will benefit a great deal
from it. Perhaps it will even turn the tide in our favor. When we return
to Marsport I wish to begin work on it at once. And now, if you will
please pass me the briefcase--"




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Planet Stories_ January 1954.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.



