
The sound of his given name restored Biggs somewhat, for the banker
resorted to it only on occasions when he shared his deepest confidences
with his old houseman.

"Well, the line goes, 'Soft may the worms about him creep,' sir."

A slight shudder seemed to run through McMasters' body. Then after a
tomb-like silence, "Good reason for building the mausoleum."

"Yes, sir, I think so, sir."

"Well," with an apparent effort, "when they exhumed my grandfather's
remains to place them in the new vault, the casket was opened, and----"

"Oh, sir," cried Biggs, throwing out a trembling, expostulating hand,
but the banker went on, relentlessly.

"----the body was turned over, on its side, with the left knee drawn up
part-way."

"That's the way he always slept--in life." Biggs' voice was a hollow
whisper.

"And that's the reason my father, after building himself a mausoleum,
insisted that his body be cremated," said McMasters. "He took no
chances."

Biggs' horrified eyes traveled dully to the massive urn over the great
fireplace and rested there, fascinated.

"Hiram, where is heaven?"

Biggs' eyes flitted back to rest in surprize upon the questioner.

"Why, up there, sir," pointing toward the ceiling.

"Do you believe that the earth rotates on its axis?"

"That's what I was taught in school, sir."

"If that hypothesis is true, we are rolling through space at the rate of
about sixteen miles a minute," figured the banker. "Now you say heaven
is up there."

"Yes, sir."

"Biggs, what time is it?"

The servant glanced at the great clock in the corner.

"Ah, it's twelve o'clock, sir, and time for your medicine," in a voice
full of relief.

"Never mind the drugs," commanded McMasters, "until we finish our
problem in higher mathematics. Now, if I ask you where heaven is at
midnight, which will be twelve hours from now, where will you point,"
triumphantly.

"Why, up there," replied the bewildered servant, again indicating the
ceiling.

"Then," cried McMasters, "you will be pointing directly opposite from
the place you indicated a moment ago; for by midnight the earth will
have turned approximately upside down. Do you get my point?"

"Yes, sir," replied poor Biggs, thoroughly befuddled.

"Then where will heaven be at six o'clock this evening?" fairly shouted
the sick man.

"Out there," replied the servant, hopelessly, pointing toward the
window.

"And where will heaven be at six o'clock in the morning?"

"Over there." And Biggs pointed a trembling finger at the fireplace.
Then, "Oh, sir, let's not--the doctor----"

"Hang the doctor," interrupted McMasters testily. "I've been thinking
this thing over, and I've got to talk about it to someone."

"But don't you believe in a hereafter?" queried Biggs, a horrible note
of fear in his pitiful voice.

For a moment the banker was silent; the massive clock ticked solemnly
on. A coal toppled with a sputter and flare in the fireplace.

"Yes, Hiram," in a thoughtful voice, "I suppose I do."

"I'm glad to hear you say that," cried Biggs in very evident relief.

"Ah, if you could but tell me," continued the banker, "from whence we
come, and whither we go?"

"If I knew, sir, I'd be equal with the Creator," answered Biggs with
reverence.

"That's well said, Hiram, but it doesn't satisfy me. I've made my place
in the world by getting to the root of things. Ah, if I could only get a
peek behind the curtain, before I go--back-stage, you know--mayhap I
would not be afraid to die," and his voice fell almost to a whisper.

"The Great Director does not permit the audience behind the footlights,
unless he calls them," answered Biggs whimsically, the ghost of a smile
lighting up his troubled features.

"Another thing, Biggs, do you believe those stories about Jonah, and
Lazarus, and the fellow they let down through a hole in the roof to be
healed?"

"I do, sir," with conviction.

"Do you understand how it was done?" testily.

"Of course not, sir, being only a human."

"Then tell me, Hiram, when you cannot see through it, how can you
swallow all this theology?"

"My faith, sir," answered Biggs, simply, raising his eyes with
reverence.

At this, a quizzical smile came over the sick man's face.

"In looking up, Hiram, don't forget, since it is twelve-thirty, that we
have swung around four hundred and eighty miles from the spot you
originally designated as the location of the Pearly Gates."

"Oh, sir, I beg of you," remonstrated the servant, "I cannot bear to
have you jest on such a--why, master!" he broke off with a little cry,
rushing to his bedside.

The quizzical smile on the banker's face had suddenly faded, and his
head had fallen feebly back upon the pillow.

"Oh, why did he waste his strength so?" cried Biggs, piteously, as with
trembling hands and tear-blurred eyes he searched the little table for
the smelling-salts.

After a few breaths, the patient sighed and opened his eyes wearily.

"My medicine, Hiram, and then I must rest."
