
The station announcer came on screen then and told us what we already
knew, that contact with Colonel Sanderson's party was delayed because
of transmission difficulties. The Sanderson expedition would leave Mars
for Earth in two more days, when the current opposition was completed,
but in the meantime the program sponsors appreciated the interest shown
by their public and would relay the broadcast to us as soon as contact
was established.

A film cartoon featuring a lizard named Freddie came on next, and Larry
turned down the sound so he could hear orders for refills. The little
man drank his bourbon and water and sneered at his reflection in the
mirror; none of us paid him any further attention, but talk started up
again along the bar.

Somebody at the other end asked how long it took a television signal
to travel across all that space, and choked on his drink when Willard
Saxton told him.

"My God," he said when he stopped coughing. "You mean Mars is so far
away it takes three minutes just to _see_ it?"

All of us laughed at that but Larry and the little man at the end of
the bar.

"What I'm wondering," somebody else said, "Is how the colonel and his
boys feel after breathing nothing but canned air for a year."

"Maybe the air up there is better than our scientists think," Abe
Marker said. He winked at us and looked at the little man on my right.
"How about it, friend? Is the air good on Mars?"

"Breathable, but not good," the little guy said. "It smells like dead
fish."

Silence fell along the bar while we waited for a straight man to raise
his head.

Willard Saxton took the bait. "And why should it smell so, may I ask?"

"Because Mars is lousy with fish," the little man said. "And because
when fish die, they stink."

Larry did a brisk business for a few minutes while we sized the little
guy up again. He definitely wasn't drunk, but the task of deciding
whether he was being dead-pan-comic or just nasty was a sort of
challenge that called for thought.

"But you'd need extensive oceans to support so many fish," Willard
Saxton argued, still taking it seriously. "And if Mars had oceans we'd
have seen them long ago. They reflect light."

"Mars is too level for oceans," the little man said. "The water spreads
out thin to make one big marsh, and you can't see it because the weeds
that grow up from the bottom camouflage it."

Somebody down the bar said, "This gets curiouser and curiouser," and
everybody laughed again but Willard and Larry and the little comic.
Somebody else asked if he was a professional and what show was he on,
but he didn't answer. He just pushed his shot glass forward instead.

"Another bourbon," he said.

The announcer came on screen again when the lizard cartoon went off
and said that the Mars party's signal was beginning to come through
and that as soon as it cleared up they would put it on the cable. Then
he told us about a new kind of pretzel prepared with a special salt
guaranteed not to give us hardening of the arteries, and after that we
had another film cartoon. This one was about two crows at a circus, but
nobody could follow it because Larry turned down the sound again.

Between his third and fourth stingers Willard Saxton--who had a
reputation to uphold, being science editor of the _Advertiser_--had
made up his mind by now to put the little man in his place. It burned
him brown to see this character drinking bourbon and sneering at
himself in the mirror and not caring a damn what we thought, and it put
Willard under a sort of obligation to show him up.

"Reliable tests have conclusively proved," Willard said, "that the
atmosphere of Mars contains only minute traces of water vapor, and that
its oxygen content is less than one-hundredth the density necessary to
sustain human life. Spectroanalysis findings--"

"A spectroanalysis of Earth from Mars," the little man said, "shows
nothing beyond our Heaviside layer, and proves that we can't live here
because nothing can breathe pure ozone."
