
He finished his bourbon and made chains of wet rings on the bartop with
his glass. The mixed look on his face was so strong that for a moment I
almost thought of the name for it.

Willard stalled for time by ordering another stinger--a double, this
time--and Abe Marker took over.

"How about those pictures of Martian dust storms the boys at Palomar
make?" Abe asked. "You can't have dust storms on a marshy planet, can
you?"

"Those aren't dust storms," the little man said. "They're clouds of
gnats."

"_Gnats?_" we all said at once, and somebody down the bar,
quicker-witted than the rest of us, added: "Gnats to you too, Charlie!"

"A fact," the little man said, but not as if he cared. "They travel in
swarms thousands of miles wide, and they bite like hell."

We sat and watched the two voiceless crows flap through the television
cartoon for a while. Nobody spoke until the film was over and the
screen went blank, when the little man caught Larry's eye and held up
one finger.

"Bourbon," he said.

We heard a confused muttering of voices in the background and waited
expectantly for Colonel Sanderson to speak to us from Mars, but
apparently the network people were still having trouble with their
transmission beam. The screen stayed blank.

"You left out the interesting part, Charlie," somebody called from down
the bar. "The Martian natives. How about them?"

"There aren't any--as you'd know them," the little man said. He seemed
to grow thoughtful for a moment. "But they are intelligent. They do
things you couldn't do."

"Such as what?" somebody asked.

The little man shrugged. "Teleport. They're good at it too."

Saxton let out a laugh. "That would make them more intelligent than
us!" he said. "What do these Martians look like?"

The little man screwed up his face distastefully. "Frogs."

The reporter who had asked about natives got choked on his drink and
had to be pounded on the back. On my left, Abe Marker leaned against
the bar to look past me at the little guy.

"Frogs we got now," he said admiringly. "By the billions?"

"There are more frogs on Mars," the little man said, "than there are
gnats and fish together, and they never stop croaking. You'd have to
hear it to believe it."

The television screen lit up suddenly, chopping off conversation, and
we were watching the first Marscast in history.
