
No joints protested more than those of Laramie,--“Laramie Red,”--who
had been riding a hard-bitted horse all the morning and was due, he
knew, to fork Old Thunder this afternoon.

The horses of one’s string, however, should be ridden turn about.
Consequently Laramie flicked his noose for Old Thunder; and at the
clap of the hemp around his neck, Old Thunder followed the trend of
the rope. A mild-in-appearance, fly-bitten roan, he, with a sleepy
eye--but with Roman nose and aggressive chocky head wherein obstinacy
had its dwelling-place.

With “Oh!’s” and “Ah!’s” and sundry “By George! See that!” the
tourist squad had taken station to observe the very simple
operations of tossing a noose over a horse’s head, yanking him
forth, and investing him with bridle, blanket and saddle, and man.
Perhaps there was romance in this, too. Kin savvy? If so, it had
been imported for the occasion.

“What a pretty horse!”

Laramie was conscious of blue eyes in a fair flushed face devouring
his every motion--fascinated, maybe, by his flaming thatch, his
largely freckled visage impervious to wind and weather, and his
bowed legs set by thirty years of chasing cows.

But “Pretty hawss!” Old Thunder? Who’d ha’ thought it?

“What’s his name?”

“Satan, ma’am.”

“Oh!”

Laramie grimly continued with his routine. Old Thunder submitted, as
if contemplating that period of coltship when he indeed might have
been “pretty.” His retrospective mien portrayed docility.

“Here’s a genuine cow-pony,” pronounced the elderly man, who was
doing the critical. “Hardy, obedient, faithful, the cowboy’s most
valued partner. The real cowboy never abuses his horse. Depends on
him too much. That’s why he changes mounts whenever he can. Well,
people, you’re seeing the actual thing--the Western cowboy at work,
off the films. That’s good. You know your business, my man.”

Laramie did not deign answer to that exalted address “My man.” He
sensed the sly anticipation of his fellows as he gathered the lines,
turned stirrup to his foot, and with hand to cheek strap and hand to
mane vaulted aboard in single movement.

“Go!” somebody yapped.

Old Thunder exploded. Always did. But this present play caught
Laramie in a frame of mind more savage than usual. Was he to be
butchered for a tourist holiday? He gave the brute its head and
raked with spurs relentless, to have the fit over with in short
order. And ride he could, could Laramie Red, veteran of the range
dating back to the long trails, to Abilene, Ogalalla and Miles City.

Cheers and cries attended upon him, inciting Old Thunder. His hat
sailed free. After the preliminary cavorting, Thunder, true to his
system, launched himself into furious straight-away out across the
brush, with Laramie sitting heavily until the fit should expend.

And when he rocked in upon an Old Thunder, now satiated, to get his
hat and to receive instructions for duty, he encountered a blast
extraordinary.
