
Laramie smiled sourly through the perspiration of his rugged
countenance.

By that twist of the lips he revealed the injury done to his very
soul.

“’Cause I abuse his pet stock. Got to learn how to handle hawsses,
yet.”

“Hold on! You say he fired you?”

“He shorely did. I’m quittin’. Here’s his hawss. You got my time?”

“No!” Tex implored. “Wait! Why, doggone his skin--” He wheeled about,
but the “big boss” was valiantly coming as if to impress the stamp
of authority. And the lingering riders grinned.

“This man says you’ve discharged him, Mr. Bunyan,” Tex accused.

“So I have. On the spot, too. Look at that horse. The man’s a
brute.”

“Easy, now, Mister,” Laramie warned, a glint in his hazel eyes.

“Shore, I see the hawss. There’s nothing wrong with the hawss,” Tex
would placate, somewhat bewildered. “And I’ll say the man you’re
speaking of is a top hand--there’s not a better man in the outfit.
You can’t fire _him_.”

“Can’t I?” The owner of the 77 repeated. “Look at that horse. In a
lather already! See how he’s marked up. The man’s a--hum!--he’s too
rough. I’ll not have my horses foundered, or their tempers ruined.
Let the man learn to handle horses; then if he wishes to come back.
I’ll consider him. How much do we owe him?”

“But great Scott, Mr. Bunyan!” Tex writhed with honest anguish. “The
hawss aint hurt. His hair’s scurcely mussed. You can’t set a man
afoot for that! A hawss has got to be _ridden_, else he aint any
good in the herd. I wouldn’t waste time with a plumb mean
hawss--haven’t much use for a buster, anyhow. And if I caught a man
mistreating an animal regardless, I’d be the fust to fire him. Old
Thunder aint been mistreated. He’s just nacherly a trifle gay when
he’s fust forked. He does it a-purpose; he _expects_ to be tapered
off like Laramie tapered him--wants somebody to come right back at
him, and then he’s peaceful. That hawss is ready to go all the rest
the day. He’s only one o’ them kind that’s got to be uncorked. Why,
Laramie wouldn’t choose to hurt a hawss or ary other animal. But on
the range a man has to ride and to rope and to brand; that’s what
you pay him for, aint it? Laramie’s a cow-man--been at it twenty-five
or thirty year. He knows the value of hawsses and cows as well as I
do. You can’t fire him for nothing.”

Mr. Bunyan pursed his lips and gave judicial answer.

“I still think he should be discharged. But perhaps he was only
showing off before the ladies. He’s a ladies’ man! Anyway, he’d
better stay until you’ve shipped the cattle.”

“I had, had I?” Laramie snorted. “Thanks. Wouldn’t care for some.
I’ll leave my saddle in the wagon, Matthews, and hoof to town. I’ll
go to cookin’ before I’ll ever lay hand on another Seventy-seven
hawss.”

“No, Laramie!” Tex pleaded. “Stay and we’ll talk this over. I need
you. You _got_ to stay.”

“I’m full up on talk, and I’m full up on punchin’, too,” replied
Laramie. “For the information of this loco, I’ll say I was goin’ to
quit anyhow. Decided that yesterday. He’s late. But I’ll finish out
on yore account, Tex; then I’m done.”

“Oho!” chuckled the aggravating Bunyan, out of wisdom excessive.
“Pay-day; then wine, woman and song, eh?”

“’Cordin’ to yore tell,” growled Laramie. He resaddled Old Thunder,
brusquely mounted, and without instructions rode off on duty
self-assigned.
