
This evening the 77 camped by themselves, for the outland guests had
left. After supper Laramie waddled over to sit beside Tex and put an
important question.

“How much’ll I have comin’ to me, Tex, when you pay off?”

“Where?”

“At the shippin’-pens. We draw our money when we strike town at the
end of the drive, don’t we?”

“Shorely. You needn’t worry about that. You’ll get your share,
unless you want me to hold back.”

“Nope: no holding back this time,” said Laramie. “How much’ll it be,
Tex? You can figger, can’t you? I aint kept track.”

“What do you want to know for?” Tex demanded. “Can’t you wait?
There’s no way to spend it here. You’ll spend it fast enough when
you do get it. Why don’t you let it grow?”

“Well,” said Laramie, “I’m curious. It’s mine, aint it? Then I get
it, don’t I? How much?”

“But what’ll you do with it? Throw it away?” Tex reproved. “Five
dollars will give you a good time in that shipping burg; the rest
wont harm you if I keep it for you.”

“I don’t stop in that burg,” announced Laramie. “I told you I’m
quittin’. I’ll need all my money.”

Tex deplored:

“Oh, pshaw, Laramie! I was hoping you’d got that out of your system.
The old man’s gone. ’Twasn’t only a flash in the pan. I mean for you
to stay on. Blamed if I’ll let you leave the Seventy-seven.”

“Can’t help yoreself, Tex,” said Laramie. “I been thinkin’ of
quittin’, two-three weeks now, and I do quit, soon as we reach the
pens. You’ll have men enough there.”

“Going to join another outfit?”

“Nope. When I quit, I quit ridin’, and I pull out.”

“Why--what do you aim to do? You’re talking foolish!” Tex censured.

“Me?” said Laramie. “Well, I reckon I’ll go to little old K. C. I
aint been in a city since--gosh, I don’t know when, Tex. It’s time I
was learnin’ something.”

“You might have gone,” Tex snapped. “You’ve been started--I’ve
started you, myself; but ’fore you got to the train, where were you?
Plumb flat. But all right: I’ll send you in with the stock. Give you
another chance.”

“No, sir!” said Laramie. “I don’t go as any stock-tender, Tex. I go
civilized. I know I’ve fell by the way, on several occasions, Tex,
but this time will be different. There don’t nary man call me a
brute ag’in. I quit the range, and I live white. When I get to
Kansas City, I’m goin’ to the swellest cafe in that town, and I
order me the best feed on the hull mee-noo, regardless. I been
livin’ so long on beef, I moo whenever I see a calf. I reckon I’ll
put up at the best _ho_-tel, and I’ll take in the best thee-ater,
and I’ll buy some store clothes. Wow! Hey?” And Laramie fairly
licked his chops.

“Shorely,” agreed Tex in tone caustic. “I see yuh. Easy come, easy
go. You fellows are alluz fools with your money. All right; what’ll
you do then?”

“Well,” said Laramie, “lackin’ better while I was lookin’ round, I
suppose I might get a job at the stockyards. I know cattle. But that
wont be ridin’. It’ll be loafin’. Now,” he concluded, “you
understand why I figger ahead on what’s comin’ to me. How much?”

“Very good,” Tex rapped. “Seeing you’re bound to know, I’ll give it
to you straight. Close as I can calkilate, Laramie, at the pens
you’ll have exactly thirty-three dollars and fifty cents due you.
Want, cash or a gold bond?”

“What you sayin’, Tex?” Laramie gasped. “I got more than that!”

“No, you haven’t. You remember, Laramie, that last time you turned
loose, after the calf round-up, you lost all your money, and your
saddle, and bridle, and boots, and your four-gallon Texas hat, in a
tin-horn poker-game. So I had to stake you to a new outfit. Those
things cost. And you’ve been drawing a dollar or two, now and again,
since. I can show you in black and white.”

“You needn’t, Tex. Yore word’s good.” But thirty-three dollars and
fifty cents, after thirty years of dogging cows from the border to
Montana! Shucks!

Laramie rallied. He had faced worse crises.

“I’ll take it, anyhow,” he said cheerfully. “I aint clean busted.”

“No,” said Tex. And he added with significant disapproval: “Not yet!
But if you come back with your fifty cents, you’ll be doing well.”
