
“True to his promise, several days later Laramie found himself at
the railway station of the shipping town--a wayside town bared upon
the bare plains, drenched with sun and dust--a spasmodic little town
livened at intervals, as now, by the beef herds bawling in the pens
and shutes, and by the brown, rollicking riders turned loose from
the durance of the trail for their brief fling.

Easy come, easy go, this, where (in the language of the country)
“the coyote howls and the poker-chips rattle and money rolls
up-hill!” Wow! A rebound to riotous living, even to the extent of
canned peaches and canned cream; then--“back to the sage and sun.”
Therefore, the session being limited and sentiment for a “plumb
idjit” scant, Laramie, having rigorously declined invitations to a
farewell that might have cut his travels short again, was alone at
the station. Behind him the revels beckoned. He licked his lips
thirstily.

He had shed his chaps; he had consigned his saddle and bridle and
bed-roll also to Tex, for disposal. Somebody would buy them--and pay
out of future earnings. But he was free, and he had his ticket, and
money besides--hard money for that feed, and a thee-ater, and a “top”
bed with sheets and pillers; reckoned he’d have to get a nightshirt!

The long train thundered in. And he (a figure _sui generis_, in his
high-heeled boots and his big hat and his stained checkered blouse
and his dusty trousers shaped to irrevocably bowed legs) was
stumping down the line, when he brought up against another figure,
just mounting the steps of a Pullman.

This was his critic, name of Bunyan.

“Hello, my man.” Mr. Bunyan paused “Stock-tender, eh? Did you decide
to stay on for another try?”

“No sir,” said Laramie, holding himself in stern check. “It happens
yore stock-tenders don’t travel on passenger cars. They travel
caboose, if they’re lucky. Besides, yore cows are old enough to
travel alone, and so am I. I’ve quit; I’ve drawed my pay and I’m
headin’ for Kansas City, never more to roam.”

Mr. Bunyan smiled with smile exasperating.

“You are, are you? Hunting a job there?”

“I suppose I’ll have to earn my keep, after I’ve been fed up and to
a thee-ater. Reckon I’ll enjoy life a little, fust.”

Mr. Bunyan laughed.

“That’s it! Easy come, easy go! Can’t spend your money fast enough
in this town, eh? Those other boys don’t seem to have any
difficulty, judging by what I’ve seen and heard. You men are all of
the same stamp. You lack good sense. What you earn in one month, you
guzzle and gamble away in half an hour. I suppose that’s being a
cowboy!”

Laramie recognized that in this ironical diatribe there might be a
grain of truth.

“As for ‘easy come,’ I dunno,” said he, out of memories of the
thirty years’ wind and weather, round-up and trail. “But I’ve
ree-formed. If I hadn’t, I’d take no such talk from _you_.”

With that, for fear he might tarnish his new shield at once, he
waddled on, red and resolute.
