
The titles mocked him. He seemed likely to starve in the midst of a
strange plenty.

“What’ll it be?” the waitress chided.

“Oh, shucks!” Laramie murmured. “I’m an orphan on this range, miss,”
he apologized. In his desperation he could think of but one sure
bet. “Fetch me a platter o’ beef,” blurted Laramie.

“Steak or roast?”

“Make her steak,” bade Laramie, still playing safe.

“That,” informed the waitress, “will take about fifteen minutes. It
has to be cooked to order.”

“All right,” said Laramie. “I reckon I can stick it out. You tell
the cook he can be cookin’ me a can o’ coffee, at same time.”

He sapiently left his hat upon the stool, as sign, and wandered
again, for that poignant urge of unlawful thirst nagged him.
Presently the wail of a child penetrated through the echoes of the
waiting-rooms; and like a knight errant seeking the source of
distress he was tolled on until, quite ignorantly, he had invaded
the women’s section. Always was soft toward kids, anyhow.

This was an unhappy, protesting kid, asylumed in the lap of a plump
young woman who, brightly if (to eyes other than Laramie’s) somewhat
extravagantly appareled, in vain hushed it and rocked it. Gazing
down, these he saw; and the woman, gazing up, saw him--a rough red
head, breaking his seamed countenance into a quizzical smile.

“That yore kid, ma’am?” asked Laramie.

She answered, rather frightened, and clasping the child more
closely:

“My sister’s. Not mine--no!”

A comely young woman, she, with round cheeks and sloe-black
appealing eyes. Laramie’s heart fluttered responsively.

“What’s the matter of him? Sick?”

“Hungry, I guess.”

“Why don’t you feed him?”

“No mooney. Lost my mooney.” The plaintive foreign intonation was
delicious. Laramie seized upon her helplessness.

“Hey? Where you goin’?”

“Denver. Don’t know now.”

“Yore man out there?”

“Got no man. My sister’s man send me mooney to bring baby. Now I
lost my mooney. I teenk baby hungry. No breakfast.”

“Gee!” Laramie commiserated. “How long you been here?”

“Five hour. I not know what to do.” Her wondrous eyes swam.

“Gosh!” quoth Laramie. “I’m yore man. You throw in with me. Gimme
the kid. I’ve wrestled calves.”

He took the child; he brazenly dragged her up; and to her alarmed
expostulations forced her on--

Mr. Bunyan, picking his teeth, crossed the trail.

“Oho, my man! Already at ‘work,’ are you? Didn’t look far, eh? Tut,
tut! You can do better than that!”

“You--get--out o’ my way!” Laramie growled, suffused with wrath at the
indictment from this satisfied, plethoric slanderer who alleged to
have caught him at something or other, to no credit.
