
And then, when I was reading one of the science books, it came to me.
The answer was all there, printed out plain to see only nobody saw it.
It was just this: Nobody was really alive.

Back of other people's foreheads there weren't any real thoughts or
minds, or love or fear, to explain things. The whole universe--stars
and men and dirt and worms and atoms, the whole shooting match--was
just one great big engine. It didn't take mind or life or anything else
to run the engine. It just ran.

Now one thing about science. It doesn't lie. Those men who wrote those
science books that showed me the answer, they had no more minds than
anybody else. Just darkness in their brains, but because they were
machines built to use science, they couldn't help but get the right
answers. They were like the electric brains they've got now, but hadn't
then, that give out the right answer when you feed in the question. I'd
like to feed in the question, "What's Life?" to one of those machines
and see what came out. Just figures, I suppose. I read somewhere that
if a billion monkeys had typewriters and kept pecking away at them
they'd eventually turn out all the Encyclopedia Brittanica in trillions
and trillions of years. Well, they've done it all right, and in jig
time.

They're doing it now.

A lot of philosophy and psychology books I worked through really fit
in beautifully. There was Watson's _Behaviorism_ telling how we needn't
even assume that people are conscious to explain their actions. There
was Leibitz's _Monadology_, with its theory that we're all of us lonely
atoms that are completely out of touch and don't effect each other in
the slightest, but only seem to ... because all our little clockwork
motors were started at the same time in pre-established harmony. We
_seem_ to be responding to each other, but actually we're just a bunch
of wooden-minded puppets. Jerk one puppet up into the flies and the
others go on acting as if exactly nothing at all had happened.

So there it was all laid out for me (the Professor went on, carefully
pinching out the end of his cigarette). That was why there was no
honest-to-God response in people. They were machines.

The fighters were machines made for fighting. The people that watched
them were machines for stamping and screaming and swearing. The bankers
had banking cogs in their bellies, the crooks had crooked cams. A woman
was just a loving machine, all nicely adjusted to give you a good time
(sometimes!) but the farthest star was nearer to you than the mind
behind that mouth you kissed.

See what I mean? People just machines, set to do a certain job and
then quietly rust away. If you kept on being the machine you were
supposed to be, well and good. Then your actions fitted with other
people's. But if you didn't, if you started doing something else, then
the others didn't respond. They just went on doing what was called for.

It wouldn't matter what you did, they'd just go on making the motions
they were set to make. They might be set to make love, and you might
decide you wanted to fight. They'd go on making love while you fought
them. Or it might happen the other way--seems to, more often!

Or somebody might be talking about Edison. And you'd happen to say
something about Ingersoll. But he'd just go on talking about Edison.

You were all alone.
