
The junior officer made the necessary adjustments to the controls.
With a flick of one tentacle he set the automatic alarm broadcaster
into action and swam hastily after his Captain. The metallic command,
"Abandon Ship! Abandon Ship!" rang through his mind as the device
started functioning.

The Captain was already at the controls of the lifeboat. Ronaro dove
after him. A moment later the lifeboat had slipped through the lock
into space, darting away from the wounded giant at full speed.

"Several small planets held by this star, Captain," reported Ronaro.

"I see them," telepathed Ekrado. "You keep a watch on the enemy and
look to see if any other lifeboats escape. I'll steer for the most
likely planet."

As Ronaro watched through the rear-view vision screen, first one and
then another darted away from the Alarian hulk until he could count a
total of five.

"Rendezvous instructions?" asked Ronaro mentally.

"Third planet from the sun," ordered Ekrado. "We're in luck, Ronaro,
the planet is mostly water--plenty of room to swim around in. I'll pick
one of the ocean areas to land in and inform the other boats by beacon
signals of our exact location."

Even as Ronaro adjusted the communication amplifier to direct his
mental command to the scattered lifeboats behind them, a more ominous
picture appeared on the screen. The bright red halo that warned of
approaching atomic torpedoes blossomed forth on the image of the enemy
cruiser. The single halo gradually broke into smaller red circles as
the cluster spread apart in space.

[Illustration: _They were next. Could they evade the atomic torpedoes?_]

"Space torpedoes coming," he reported tersely.

"Six, of course," replied the Captain.

"Right." It was the standard size cluster.

"How many lifeboats besides ourselves?"

"Five."

"Then we're the sixth."

"Right."

"Any of them driving toward the cruiser itself?"

"No, their guiding mechanisms must be set for small-sized craft.
They'll track every one of us down."

"A torpedo is heading directly for us now," reported Ronaro.

"At least one boat must get through to carry our message," stated
Ekrado flatly.

"What do you propose--a sacrifice?"

"Set the heat ray projector for a narrow fan beam and slice the nearest
lifeboat into two parts," ordered the Captain.

Ronaro's tentacles fairly boiled the water as he made the necessary
adjustments. A thousand miles behind them, the closest lifeboat from
their stricken vessel glowed briefly around its equator and fell apart
into two halves that gradually spread apart.

"Two hundred years ago, in the Second Gruon War, I saw my best friend
die in just such a sacrifice," grated Ekrado. "I did not like it then
and I do not like it now. It was not an easy order to give."

Without replying, Ronaro watched the vision screen anxiously. His eyes
were on the bright red halo that warned of a torpedo speeding toward
their own lifeboat. There was an additional, separate metal object in
space now, toward which the sixth torpedo might automatically be guided
by the mechanism in its nose. Blinding flashes lit up the vision screen
as one lifeboat after another was destroyed. Now only two torpedoes
were left, one heading toward them, and the other toward the lifeboat
that had been split in half. At last, the torpedo bearing on them
deviated from its course as its guiding mechanism sensed the nearer
metal bulk of the nearer half of the lifeboat. The two flashes appeared
as one as the two torpedoes blasted both halves of the sacrifice into
nothingness.

"All six exploded," reported Ronaro. "The enemy cruiser is veering off
to return to base. We are safe!"

The little boat sped on until finally it was screaming through the thin
upper air of Earth. Ekrado sharply decreased their speed to prevent
over-heating the hull, having no desire to be cooked alive in the water
of his own lifeboat.
