
Below them, covering the horizon, was the vast expanse of the Atlantic.
The two Alarians were joyous at the sight of such a planet. Here was no
dried-up world, such as some they had seen where old age or the heat
of a nearby sun had dried up the life-giving waters. Ekrado sent the
little craft straight down toward the blue expanse below.

Water shot high into the air like a geyser as the alien lifeboat
plunged into the ocean. Deep under the water's surface, the craft
leveled off and slowed until it drifted idly.

"Take an instrument reading," ordered Ekrado. "Let us see what kind of
a hydrosphere this planet has. It looks good enough."

"It is not as good as it looks," reported Ronaro grimly. "The
temperature and pressure are satisfactory, but the chemical content of
the water is poisonous. It would kill us in a few minutes."

"That means we must depend on our water-purifying plant as long as we
are on this planet--or as long as it holds out. They aren't built to
last forever."

"We must get word to Alar that the entire Ru'ukonian fleet is attacking
without warning, while our fleet is at the other end of the galaxy
holding maneuvers. Maneuvers! A yachting trip for the Lord Admiral
Krukon, while Alar lies almost defenseless!"

"You stated before that our only hope was to contact a civilized race
on one of these planets, in hopes that they might have interstellar
communication apparatus?"

"Yes," responded Ekrado, "or any type of equipment for broadcasting
radiation. We can rebuild it for our purpose. Have you forgotten that
we served one hundred and sixty years together in the Communications
Corps? We could rebuild anything, just so they have the power."

"I believe we could," replied Ronaro, caught by his Captain's
enthusiasm.

"Right! Our first step must be to find intelligent life on one of the
planets of this sun. We must start by searching the waters of this
world."

Ekrado threw the throttle-lever forward slightly and the ship moved
ever more rapidly through the water. Straight ahead he drove it while
the two Alarians concentrated every attention on the vision screens in
the hope of sighting intelligent life.

Life they saw aplenty in the next few hours, much of it strange but the
greater part of it similar to that of their own world.

"Ronaro, look," telepathed Ekrado excitedly, "a being like an Alarian."

Across the vision plate floated a pointed body sprouting a tangle of
flexible arms at one end. Hope surged high in them both.

"Wonderful," exulted Ronaro, "probably we've found intelligent life
already. Probe his mind, Ekrado."

"No response yet," replied the Captain, "possibly they use some other
method of communication."

"Such as signals or audible sounds," suggested Ronaro.

"Yes. In that case, it would be difficult to establish contact."

"Very difficult to transmit our thoughts, but not so difficult to read
his."

"Well, it has been done before, with non-telepathic races."

"Like the giant rays of Ikraa."

"Let me concentrate, Ronaro."

The two Alarians drifted in telepathic silence, Ekrado closing his eyes
and concentrating his mental efforts at reaching the alien mind. Ronaro
studied the creature as it swam unconcernedly past searching for food.

"Hunts his food in primitive fashion," he reflected silently, careful
not to destroy Ekrado's concentration. "Apparently his people do not
have shellfish farms. Or possibly he is simply hunting for the fun
of it or in order to be alone. He has twice as many tentacles as an
Alarian, but mere physical difference proves nothing. He is wearing
no harness or ornamentation of any kind, nor is he carrying a weapon.
Obviously a low level of culture, if any."

"You try," ordered the Captain, relaxing. "I've concentrated until my
braincase almost burst and achieved nothing."

"I'm afraid I'll have no better luck," said Ronaro. Swiftly, he
reported his observations to his Captain.

Nonetheless, Ronaro also tried to contact the stranger. He had,
perhaps, better luck than his Captain, but his mind found only primal
impulses, not thoughts. There was hunger there, more like greed to
the refined sensitiveness of the Alarian, and a great fear that at
the moment lay dormant and formless. There wasn't even the faintest
stirrings of curiosity toward their boat. In fact, his probing mind
could not even find a specific identification of the lifeboat in the
thing's mind.

"Ugh," he shuddered, "completely undeveloped. A beast."

Ekrado frowned mentally. "You must have done better than I, at least. I
found only nothingness."

"You must have been looking solely for intelligence," Ronaro hastened
to reassure his Captain. "There was none to find. Only primitive
emotions."

Silently, Ekrado started the lifeboat on its long sweep through the
waters. At the end of a hundred miles, he turned in a slow curve and
headed back along a straight line parallel to the way they had come.
Back and forth they combed through the blue-green water, systematically
hunting some sign of intelligent life.
