
During this period, they several times encountered creatures similar to
that which they had first thought might be like themselves. Each time
hope rose again; and each time it came to nothing. Each such creature
inspired in them a strange medley of emotions, a sense of kinship and
yet of repugnance, a feeling at once of benevolence toward a more
backward cousin mixed with exasperation.

After the futile search had gone on for several hours, Ronaro was
struck with a sudden idea.

"Perhaps the intelligent races of this planet are deep-sea creatures,"
he suggested.

"It's possible," mused Ekrado. "So far I've been cruising pretty much
at our own favorite depth."

"This lifeboat can stand tremendous pressure."

"We'll try it," decided Ekrado. The slender shape of the lifeboat
wheeled over until it was pointing straight down toward the ocean
bottom.

Soon there was a gradual change in the color of the water, fading
from green to greenish blue and then to dark blue. Ronaro snapped on
the searchlights at the Alarian equivalent of 700 feet and the yellow
beams spread out into the dark blue waters on all sides. The pressure
gauge showed them an ever increasing force pressing on all sides of
their vessel, until, at 1700 feet, it had reached 770 pounds per square
inch. At this level the water was as black as space itself. The beams
from their searchlights had changed in color from yellow to a luminous
gray bordered along each side with dark blue. Sprinkled through the
blackness were the lights carried by many deep-sea fish. The two
Alarians studied the vision screens with tense concentration. Fish swam
through their light beams and were gone again in an instant in the
surrounding blackness. Groups of lights moving through the darkness
told them of large fish or schools of smaller fish, but they were
unable to trace the outlines from the pattern of lights.

"We should be near bottom, by now, if this were Alar," commented Ronaro
at 3000 feet.

"The waters of this planet may well be deeper than those of our home
world," pointed out Ekrado.

Both of them looked at the pressure gauge. At the Alarian equivalent
of 1358 pounds per square inch, it was not far from the red line that
indicated the maximum pressure the lifeboat could stand. But still they
kept going down through the ice-cold blackness.

"Look Ekrado!" clamored Ronaro. "The God Ka!"

It was not, indeed, the God Ka, but it might well have been. Its body
alone was five times the size of their lifeboat and its tentacles
stretched for an unknown distance, far beyond the rays of their feeble
lights. It brooded motionless in the inconceivable pressure, as though
watching them, although it had no trace of eyes.

Both Alarians concentrated their minds on the problem of communication
with the tremendous mind they knew was contained within that mighty
bulk. They both floated motionless, eyes closed, concentrating. But
while the Alarians were motionless, the thing before them was not.
A great tentacle wrapped itself around the hull. As the tentacle
tightened in its body-crushing embrace, it encountered unexpected
resistance in the hard metal of the hull. Even as the two Alarians were
beginning to face their disappointment at what they had found, or what
they had not found, that unexpected resistance registered within the
brain of the giant squid. The dull surprise and heavy anger that flared
within the primitive mind warned the two Alarians of their danger.

As they became aware once more of their immediate surroundings, one
vision screen was completely covered by the width of one huge tentacle
wrapped around their ship, while the other showed several more
tentacles drawing near to enfold their lifeboat. The upper part of the
hull, the roof of their cabin, bulged inwards, while the hull groaned
and creaked as though every plate and bar was about to collapse.

"Quick, Ronaro, the heat cannon," snapped the Captain as he dove for
the controls.

The motors hummed vainly as Ekrado sought to free the craft from the
monster's grip. At the same time, Ronaro brought his sights to bear
on the approaching tentacles. The tight beam sliced through them as
fast as he could bring it to bear; one, two, three, four.... But not
fast enough, for one more tentacle closed around the lifeboat. By
chance, the monster had blotted out their vision screen with the second
tentacle. Now Ronaro was fighting blind. He set the angle of fire in
such a way that the cannon would fire close to the lifeboat's hull. He
fired again and again, as fast as the weapon built up potential for
another discharge, systematically combing the waters around them. The
pressure on the hull relaxed almost visibly as the tentacles that held
the ship were sliced in two at last by the heat ray. But since Ronaro
could not set the weapon to actually graze the hull, the end of the
severed tentacle remained wrapped around them to obscure the vision
ports.

The monster was not defeated yet. Even with six tentacles gone, it had
four left, and Ronaro was still fighting blind. His rays bombarded the
water blindly in the hope of striking the body of the giant. At the
same time, the lifeboat got slowly under way, rising sternwards toward
the surface. As it gathered momentum, Ekrado spun it over, to travel
bowfirst. The turn dislodged the severed tentacles and once again the
two Alarians could see into the dark water as far as their light beams
could illuminate it. There was no sign of the monster. Whether they had
outrun it or outfought it, they did not know, but in any case they were
safe.

"That idea did not turn out any too well, did it?" commented Ekrado
wryly.

Ronaro did not reply, for the statement hardly called for an answer.
The two Alarians floated in silence while the lifeboat climbed back
toward the lighter surface waters once more.
