
The two Alarians floated motionless in the water of their lifeboat,
each immersed in his own thoughts. Shaking off his lethargy, Ekrado
began to make a routine check of the condition of the heat ray cannon.
Mechanically, he went over the apparatus, his mind still on their
problem. The cannon was, of course, in perfect condition.

"Clackety-clack-clack-clack," chattered the Konald detector.

"Metal!" exclaimed Ekrado in surprise.

"Large masses of it," echoed Ronaro.

"Here in the surface waters. That can only mean...."

"Intelligent life," the two minds chorused.

High at the top of the vision screen appeared the bottom of a long
narrow metal hull. It was unmistakably a metal ship, the work of
intelligent minds, an indication of culture and civilization.

"Only one of us will try to communicate this time," directed Ekrado.
"You do it, Ronaro."

This contact was entirely different. Ronaro's questing mind at once
encountered intelligence. There was purpose there, not the mindless
urges of hunger and fear that they had met before, but rational purpose
backed by planning. But there was something else Ronaro sensed beneath
the surface, something alien.

"Ekrado!" he exclaimed, shocked. "These creatures are air breathers!"

"Air breathers!" snorted the Captain. "Have you drifted into fantasy
Ronaro? Establish contact with them."

"I can't," Ronaro replied after a few moments of intense concentration.
"Their minds cannot receive our thought impulses."

"We've got to attract their attention. After they have seen us we'll be
able to work out some method of communication."

"It will be hard when we live in two different mediums--we in water and
they in air."

"No matter; we will manage somehow after we have made contact with
them. I'll start the engine and head for the surface."

Ronaro saw it first, a short cylinder-like object tumbling through the
waters, directly toward their craft. Sensing danger instinctively, he
cried out:

"Ekrado! Full speed ahead!"

He had barely gotten the thought out when it happened. A great
explosion rocked the waters as the depth bomb went off. The lifeboat
was smashed open, its alien water blending imperceptibly with the
waters of the Atlantic.

The body of a squid appeared on the surface, its tentacles trailing
aimlessly. The keen eyes of the men on the destroyer flickered past it,
looking for the tell-tale oil slick of a broken submarine, in vain.

"Now just what the hell _was_ that?" wondered the captain, scratching
at his balding head.