
Sally Odum's father looked up from the news-sheets that had just come
off the clicker. "Mary, did you see these items about the Ravian loose
in the city?"

His wife was playing chack with Sally. The child had beaten her four
games running, and Mary was just beginning to wonder if she was mother
to a genius. A mother does not appreciate interruption of such
musings. "Ah--no," she answered absently. "What about um?"

"Seems this bird--Minnn's his tag--is thought to be hiding out in some
human around town. He forced."

Mary was more interested. "Isn't forcing against galactic convention?"

"Darn right. This guy's a fugitive, like I said."

"I knew they'd get in trouble, letting these foreigners come down."

"Look, honey. One thing, we need the trade. A Ravian pays four picks of
plainum for a day or two in a human. It's all here in the news-sheet.
A Ravian hasn't got emotions, and when they're in a host they can feel
everything the host feels. Real Kicks. The host gets to spend one pick
himself--a small fortune--he has a shivaree and the Ravian goes for the
ride. And for the host it's all voluntary."

"What about this Minnn?"

Sally listened with bright attention, slightly flushed.

"It says here he could be anywhere, any man, woman or child. Tells how
you can spot 'em and names a reward. Person with old Minnn inside is a
little flushed, feverish, doesn't sleep very well. They...."

"Say, honey, Sally didn't sleep well last night. Do you think she's all
right?"

"Any kid has a restless night sometimes, Mary. Lemme finish. The person
is apt to be kind of listless, and might have memory blanks. Oh--and
the Ravian enters a host by some kind of physical contact, and he can
get to another host only by a contact with the first one."

"Maybe we ought to take Sally to Dr. Price, hon. She just hasn't been
herself lately."

"Oh well," sighed Odum, and threw down the clicker-story. "Tell you
what. All you do is visor security, tell them you're pretty sure a
person has this Ravian, and the person gets a real good physical--free.
Let's just tell them Sal has the symptoms and get a deal."

Sally got up listlessly and the screen banged as she wandered out.

"What symptoms?" asked Mary.

"You mean you weren't listening?" And Mr. Odum told Mrs. Odum all the
signs the article had listed, while Mrs. Odum gradually paled.

"But--those are exactly the symptoms she does have," she said when he
finished. Their eyes met and he reached for the visor.

The security cops arrived. Chester was with them. As they boiled
from their 'copter they nearly knocked over an old gentleman who was
creaking his way delicately along the sidewalk, and one cop stepped on
a small dog, which bit him.

Two of them stayed with Sally, who stood in the yard with a scared
expression; two others entered the house with Chester. They all came
out of the house and Mary explained to Sally that she was not to be
frightened. Sally was given a nice raincoat with built-in mittens--it
was triple-ply mento-insulation plastic--and everybody bundled into the
'copter.

Sally liked the ride and the raincoat, but when it was all over she was
sad. Mr. Forge seemed disappointed somehow....
