
Minnn lay quiet in his new host soaking in data. Perfesser Frye ...
old ... quiet, jogging complex of contentment, and dissatisfaction.
Cheated on price of eggs ... nice house over there, awful the way
they've changed things ... little girl, patted her on the head, might
have had a child like that. Enjoy what you can. Glow-thought connected
with something called beer.

Minnn was shocked to find that, almost the opposite of Sally,
Perfesser Frye was a complete liar. He was not a professor, and the
knowledge he impressed people with was mostly a collection of long,
mispronounced words and memorized facts of which the Perfesser did
not know the meaning. His landlady believed he was coming into an
immense inheritance based on platinum on Vega, and she allowed him
a familiarity which Minnn found amusing and which included rent
exemption. The man was a collection of lies. Even his rheumatism was
not genuine, but psychosomatic.

That evening the Perfesser had the unpleasant experience of seeing
his own face on the landlady's show-visor set, with the information
that there was a price on his head. This was the last he remembered
for some time, although to the landlady he appeared to retain full
consciousness. He leaped to his feet most unrheumatically, tied her
up, bashed in the visor, and pattered out into the streets, which were
deserted.

The Perfesser had good eyes for distance use, Minnn found. He swung
the Perfesser's hook-beaked head about searchingly. At the end of the
street men were coming, in mento-insulation. Minnn swung the lanky
frame about, almost capsizing it, and sprinted long-leggedly in the
opposite direction.

In a few blocks the heart was pounding and the face was hot and the
lungs could not suck enough oxygen. The Perfesser was not feeling
anything consciously, but his parasympathetic nervous system was giving
Minnn the horrors.

The cops could not be seen. Minnn withdrew to rest. The Perfesser came
to an abrupt halt, and gazed about him glassily. He remembered the
nightmarish moment watching the visor; now he found himself in the
street panting like a horse and raining sweat. He stood getting his
breath and trying to think, then moved off purposefully....
