
A bullet grazed the Perfesser's side--Minnn suddenly realized they were
not shooting to kill: and also the shaky frame he had taken would not
be able to run much longer. With a surge of concentration he pushed the
body forward. The umbrella-tip touched the driver, Minnn drove himself
down the metal ferrule, somewhere an artery burst, and the body of the
Perfesser sagged, wobbled, and, still carried forward by momentum,
smashed into a wall and toppled over. It lay there on its back. Being
front-man for a Ravian had been Perfesser Frye's last falsehood.

The truck got out of the alley, going fast, and kept going fast until
it came to the asylum. The driver did not go to the back door--there
might be people waiting for him. He walked in the front door, up to the
receptionist, and touched her. Then he discovered himself standing
there, and walked embarrassedly out again.

The receptionist remained at her desk. A visitor was moving toward her;
as he passed, the receptionist touched his hand.

Down a hallway opening into the reception room came a little group of
men--three attendants from the hospital and the hospital director; a
talking-attendant and Chester Forge, and the truck driver. All were
gloved and clad in mento-insulation but the talking-attendant.

"I was standing right here," said the driver excitedly. "Right here in
front of this desk."

The talking-attendant rested his hand on the receptionist's forehead.
"Not there now," he declared.

"Have any of you seen anyone near this desk?" called the director to
the room at large. A woman pointed to the visitor the receptionist had
touched. "He was!"

The visitor began to run.

"We've got to get him before he gets into a patient!" yelled Chester.
"In an unbalanced mind even Monnn can't find him! Get him."

They went plunging after the visitor.

Minnn was pleased. He had a head start, and this human had good running
potential. He would have fun. An interne stepped out of a door, the
visitor touched his hand, the interne stepped back through the door,
rapidly. The searchers swirled down the hall and grabbed the visitor
and Monnn made his test. "Not here now," he reported.

The interne strolled into an elevator, went up a story, walked quietly
down another corridor. Excitement was percolating through the place
almost as though the inmates breathed it. There were many inmates on
this floor; he could force into one almost at leisure.

Another elevator jarred to a stop, doors opened, and the searchers
bolted out. Chester's face was like a purple plum, his eyes were red
and wild. The long chase was teasingly close to ending, and could be
frustrated forever.

The interne turned and thumbed his nose at Forge, who gave a bellow
of anger. As the men surged toward him, the attendant sprinted a few
yards, reached out and touched a patient. The halls were full of them;
attracted by the excitement. Unobtrusively the patient touched another,
who in turn touched another, who disappeared in the crowd.

"Go back to your rooms," shouted the director of the hospital. "You are
impeding a hunt for a fugitive."

But the patients didn't see any fugitive, and they stayed, and more
kept coming.

There was a disconcerting blur of thought-emotion in the patient Minnn
was using. The pursuers were the length of the hall away; he caused his
host to turn, shriek a bad word, and thumb her nose at them.

They came running, impeded by the crowd. The patient turned a corner,
touched another patient, who touched another.

It was quite an experience, Minnn decided. He had whirled through a
rich kaleidoscope of minds and emotions; in one woman there had been a
fountain of ecstacy he would have to go back and sample sometime. He
had come to the perfect place. Except as he chose to do it, to tease,
these inmates could not reveal him, and no Ravian could detect him. He
could stay here an indefinite length of time--wait them out--then go
back to the toy chest where his husk lay--or trace Sally Odum's memory
for it in case she had moved it--and repossess himself.

He could learn to live on this planet--perhaps he could even get
governmental sanctuary, though that was not essential. He would not be
lonely. Ravians do not get lonely. They do, however, have a sense of
power.

But the pursuers were coming down the hall, the Ravian in the
talking-attendant attempting to sort through the twisted minds, the
person from the tourist service almost out of his own mind. And though
Minnn was having sport, he was a little tired. He turned the eyes of
his host toward the group of hunters, and saw that they had stopped
coming and stood talking. He walked his host to a window-bench, sat it
down, turned its mind toward slumber, and relaxed.
