
Chester had to have a plan, and, driven to unwonted efficiency by the
threat of bureaucratic disgrace and exile, his mind began to form one.
The plan was not without its dangers, especially to Chester, but it was
the only plan they had.

Power was shut off to all elevators, and at the flip of a switch all
the doors on the group's floor were locked. "We've got him penned on
this floor," said Chester. "I only hope he doesn't come across a mouse."

"He's probably on this floor," corrected Monnn through the
talking-attendant. "And he'll _probably_ stay. Ravians have a slight
psionic control, as you know, and it's barely possible Minnn could
force himself through a door-panel."

"How about a wall?"

"I doubt it."

"What if there was nobody on the other side for him to force into?"

"He would not last very long ... we would lose him. And that would go
hard for you, Mr. Forge, because we do not want Minnn done away with,
we want him captured."

"I don't need to be reminded," said Chester, mentally getting a
two-handed hold on the always-be-polite-to-a-tourist rule. "And now
let's smoke him out."

The director and a helper lingered unobtrusively near a firehose;
the rest of the group strolled on down the hall. Minnn had rested
and was alert again. Through his host-eyes he saw there were many
patients milling about--there were so many ready refuges. It occurred
to him that he had not particularly bedeviled his countryman, and he
caused his host to pick up a vase and hurl it at the head of Monnn's
talking-attendant.

Almost instantly a blast of chill water struck Minnn's host, knocking
her sprawling. Minnn found her emotions most unpleasant. He took her
mind fully, forcing her up from the floor, and a ram of water pounded
her down again. Somebody was rounding up the other patients, pushing
them out of his reach. People were yelling, running.

Somebody down the hall aimed a wide-nozzled gun at Minnn's host. There
was also the blat of an explosion and something hit his host in the
chest. "What poor weapons," thought Minnn, and then the thing exploded.
A thick gas swaddled the host-patient, Minnn felt the body sagging.
There was no time for him to weigh all factors for a really logical
decision, and he made a snap-judgment to leave this body before it lost
consciousness and sealed off his contact with his environment.

A form was stumbling past, and Minnn reached his host's hand up and
touched it. In a flash he had entered. Almost instantaneously he
realized that this time it was different. The nervous system was alive
with wild, determined resistance.

His host was Chester Forge.

Chester reeled back from the gas-shrouded, drowsing inmate. The gas
would stay near her, held by the biostatic charge in all its particles.
He had to keep away from it; he needed all his consciousness for his
battle.

He would never be able to quite describe many of the things he felt
during the struggle he waged within his own organism like a civil war.
Minnn had entered at his right wrist. Although Chester had mentally
braced, the alien had surged up his arm almost instantaneously, nearly
to the shoulder. Chester called on his mind to hold Minnn there. He
worked some part of his mind to hold Minnn there. He worked some part
of his mind like a new muscle--one cannot explain how it is he works a
muscle, he just does it. Simultaneously Chester reeled down the hall
toward where Monnn, in the talking-attendant, stood by an open door.
Monnn and the door were his two aces in the hole.

His flesh crawled; the alien was digging, seeping, sparking through
him, along his nerves, like a fluid, a worm, a gas, an insidious
writhing electricity. And the alien was winning. Inexorably he drove
along the stubborn channels to the seat of control, the watchroom in
the skull.

The talking-attendant stood with a rustling, limp black sac
out-held--Minnn's husk, taken from the toy chest of Sally Odum. If
Chester could force the writhing Minnn back down and out of his
fingertips and into the husk....

But he couldn't. The sweat rolled down his face as the fight went on
inside him. He had no way of knowing what would happen when Minnn, who
was nearing it, reached his brain. Insanity? Convulsions? Death? At
the very least, Minnn would control him, and also know his thoughts,
his plan, his two aces in the hole.
