
The hallway stretched away to either side, lined with doors similar to
the one he had just come through. How did a man get out of this place,
anyway? The door behind him was pressing against his hand with a patient
insistence, as though it wanted to close itself. He almost let it close,
but, at the last second, he changed his mind.

_Better the devil we know than the devil we don't_, he thought to
himself.

He went back into the office and looked around for something to prop the
door open. He found a small, beautifully formed porcelain dish on one of
the desks, picked it up, and went back to the door. The dish held the
door open an inch or so. That was good enough. If someone locked the
door, he could still smash in the glass if he wanted to, but the absence
of the dish when he returned would tell him that he was not alone in
this mysterious place.

He started down the hallway to his right, checking the doors as he went.
They were all locked. He knew that he could break into any of them, but
he had a feeling that he would find no exit through any of them. They
all looked as though they concealed more of the big rooms.

None of them had any lights behind them. Only the one door that he had
come through showed the telltale glow from the other side. Why?

He had the terrible feeling that he had been drawn across time to this
place for a purpose, and yet he could think of no rational reason for
believing so.

He stopped as another memory came back. He remembered being in the
stone-walled dungeon, with its smelly straw beds, lit only by the faint
shaft of sunlight that came from the barred window high overhead.

Contarini, the short, wiry little Italian who was in the next cell,
looked at him through the narrow opening. "I still think it can be done,
my friend. It is the mind and the mind alone that sees the flow of time.
The body experiences, but does not see. Only the soul is capable of
knowing eternity."

Broom outranked the little Italian, but prison can make brothers of all
men. "You think it's possible then, to get out of a place like this,
simply by thinking about it?"

Contarini nodded. "Why not? Did not the saints do so? And what was that?
Contemplation of the Eternal, my comrade; contemplation of the Eternal."

Broom held back a grin. "Then why, my Venetian friend, have you not left
this place long since?"

"I try," Contarini had said simply, "but I cannot do it. You wish to
know why? It is because I am afraid."

"Afraid?" Broom raised an eyebrow. He had seen Contarini on the
battlefield, dealing death in hand-to-hand combat, and the Italian
hadn't impressed him as a coward.

"Yes," said the Venetian. "Afraid. Oh, I am not afraid of men. I fight.
Some day, I may die--_will_ die. This does not frighten me, death. I am
not afraid of what men may do to me." He stopped and frowned. "But, of
this, I have a great fear. Only a saint can handle such things, and I am
no saint."

"I hope, my dear Contarini," Broom said dryly, "that you are not under
the impression that _I_ am a saint."

"No, perhaps not," Contarini said. "Perhaps not. But you are braver than
I. I am not afraid of any man living. But you are afraid of neither the
living nor the dead, nor of man nor devil--which is a great deal more
than I can say for myself. Besides, there is the blood of kings in your
veins. And has not a king protection that even a man of noble blood such
as myself does not have? I think so.

"Oh, I have no doubt that you could do it, if you but would. And then,
perhaps, when you are free, you would free me--for teaching you all I
know to accomplish this. My fear holds me chained here, but you have no
chains of fear."

Broom had thought that over for a moment, then grinned. "All right, my
friend; I'll try it. What's your first lesson?"

The memory faded from Broom's mind. Had he really moved through some
segment of Eternity to reach this ... this place? Had he--

He felt a chill run through him. What was he doing here? How could he
have taken it all so calmly. Afraid of man or devil, no--but this was
neither. He had to get back. The utter alienness of this bright,
shining, lifeless wonderland was too much for him.

Instinctively, he turned and ran back toward the room he had left. If he
got back to the place where he had appeared in this world,
perhaps--somehow--some force would return him to where he belonged.
