
Thus it was that I leased an old house not half a mile from Marsden’s
pretentious “farm.” I converted the entire ground floor into a
laboratory, living in solitary state upon the upper floor. I was used to
caring for myself, and the nature of my experiment being of such
potentialities, I felt that I wanted no prying servants about me.
Indeed, it has turned out to be of such international importance that I
feel no compunction whatever in utilizing it for my own selfish ends. It
could be a boon to humanity, yet its possibilities for evil in the hands
of any individual or group is so great as to render it most dangerous to
the happiness of the human kind on this small globe.

One day, some three months after I had taken up my residence in
Eastport, I had a visitor. It was Marsden. He had been attracted by the
sight of my novel aerial, just completed. By his own admission he was an
ardent “radio fan,” as they are popularly termed, I believe, and he
spent the better part of an afternoon bragging of stations he had
“logged” with his latest model radio set. Aside from my vague suspicions
of his complicity in the alienation of my beloved Venice, I must admit
that even then I felt an indefinable repulsion towards him. There was
something intangibly unwholesome about him, a narrowness between the
eyes which repelled me. Yet, although at that time I had no plan in
mind, nevertheless I encouraged him in my most hospitable manner, for
even thus early I felt, that at some time not far distant, I might be
called upon to utilize this acquaintanceship to my own advantage.

This first visit was followed by others, and we discussed radio in all
its phases, for the man had more than a smattering of technical
knowledge on the subject and was eager to learn more. At last, one day,
I yielded to his insistence that I inspect his set and agreed to dine at
his house the following evening. By now I felt secure in my disguise,
and although I dreaded the moment when I should actually confront my
lost love once more, yet I longed for the sweet pain of it with an
intensity which a hard-shelled bachelor like you will never understand.
Enough. I arrived at the Marsden’s the next evening and was duly
presented to my hostess as “Thomas Walters.” In spite of my private
rehearsals I felt a wave of giddiness sweep over me as I clasped that
small white hand in my own after the lapse of almost five years, for she
was, if possible, lovelier than ever. I noted when my vision cleared
that her eyes had widened as they met mine. I realized that my
perturbation had been more apparent than I imagined and managed to
mutter something about my alleged “weak heart,” a grimmer jest by far
than I intended. Frantically I fortified myself with remembrances of
those barren days in Afghanistan, where I stayed on and on, impotent to
raise a hand in the salvage of my heart’s wreckage.

We chatted politely all through that interminable meal, no morsel of
which aroused the faintest appreciation on my dry tongue. Finally the
chairs were pushed back and my host excused himself to bring down some
pieces of apparatus he had recently purchased, concerning which he
professed to desire my invaluable opinion.

No sooner had he left the room than the polite smile dropped from
Venice’s face like a discarded mask.

“Dick,” she cried, “what are you doing here?”

It was my first inkling that she suspected my true identity. I rallied
quickly, however, and allowed my self-encouraged bitterness its outlet.

“Had I believed you would recognize me, _Mrs. Marsden_, I should not
have inflicted my unwelcome presence upon you, I can assure you.”

She bit her lips and her head raised with a jerk. Then her mouth
softened again as her great eyes searched mine.

“Yes, but why--” she broke off at the sound of approaching footsteps.
Suddenly she leaned forward. “Meet me in the pine grove to-morrow
afternoon--four o’clock,” she breathed. Then her husband entered.

The remainder of the evening I was forced to listen to Marsden’s eager
dissertation on the alleged “static eliminator” which had been foisted
upon him on his last trip to the city. Mechanically I answered or
grunted in simulated appreciation when a pause in his endless monologue
warned me that some reply was expected of me; but my pulses were leaping
in exultation because of the fleeting hope which those few words from my
lost Venice had kindled. I could not imagine why the offer to bridge the
breach of years should come from her so voluntarily, yet it was enough
for me that she remembered and wished to see me. I cared not why.

I arrived nearly an hour early that next afternoon, for I had been
unable either to sleep or work during the interim. I shall not bore you
with the particulars of that meeting, even were I free to reveal such
sacred details. Suffice to say that after the preliminaries of doubt and
misunderstanding had been brushed away--and it was not the simple
process this synopsis would seem to infer, I can assure you--I stood
revealed as the victim of a most ingenious and thoroughly knavish plot.
Boiled down, it resembles one of those early movie scenarios.

You remember I spoke of Venice as related to the Long Island Potters, a
branch of the family highly rated in the Social Register? You will also
remember that before I undertook that expedition I was never
particularly certain whence my next year’s expenses were to be derived,
nor to what extent, if you understand what I mean. At about the time I
was preparing for this expedition which I hoped would make me
financially and scientifically independent, this wealthy branch of the
family seriously “took up” my darling Venice, inviting her to live with
them that summer. I remember now all too late, that even during that
confusion of mind caused by the agony of leaving my loved one, coupled
with the feverish preparations for departure, chill clouds of censure
came from the aloof Potters. They made no effort to mask their
disapproval of my humble self and prospects, yet in my blindness I had
never connected them intimately with what followed.

It was, in short, the old story of the ingenious man-on-the-ground, the
“good match,” aided and abetted by the patronesses of the “poor
relation.” The discriminating Marsden naturally fell in love with
Venice, and to his great surprise and chagrin, was decisively repulsed
by her. Never before having been refused anything he really wanted in
his comfortably arranged life, he became passionately desirous of
possessing her. Accordingly, my darling was shown a letter, forged with
such diabolical cleverness as to be almost indistinguishable from my own
hand. It purported to intrigue me with a very ordinary female at a
period coincident with the time I had been so fervently courting my dear
one.

She refused to credit the document and dispatched me a voluminous
explanation of the whole occurrence. Attributing my silence to the
exigencies of distance, she continued to write me for over a month. When
no answer arrived after nearly three long months, she at length
delivered a hastily planned ultimatum, to which she was later persuaded
to adhere through the combined pressure of Marsden and her family,
beating against the razed defences of her broken heart. Then it was that
I received the betrothal announcement, the only communication her
watchful family had permitted to escape their net of espionage.
