
As the story unfolded, my heart pounded with alternate waves of
exaltation and red rage at the treacherous Marsden. Because of selfish
duplicity, he had robbed us both of five years’ happiness, for I had
forced my darling’s admission that she had never loved him, and now
despised him as a common thief. My brief moment of delirious joy was
sharply curtailed, however, when I came to press her to separate from
this selfish swine. After some demur she confided that he was a drug
addict. She said that he had been fighting desperately to break this
habit ever since their marriage, for his jealous love of her was the
only remaining weapon with which to combat his deep rooted vice.
Deprived of his one motive, my darling earnestly assured me that it
would be a matter of but a few short years before the white powders
wrote Finis to yet another life. I could see but a balancing of an
already overdrawn account in such an event, and said so in no uncertain
terms. She did not chide me, merely patiently explained with sweet, sad
resignation that she held herself responsible for his very life for the
present. That although she could not love and honor him as she had
promised, yet she was bound to cleave to him during this, his “worse”
hour. And so we left it for the time, our future clouded, yet with no
locked door to bar the present from us.

We met almost daily, unless Marsden’s activities interfered. At those
times I was like a raging beast, unable to work, consumed with a livid
hatred for the cunning thief who had stolen my love while my back was
turned. I could not shake her resolution to terminate this loveless
match, even though she now loathed the mate she had once tolerated. But
in spite of the formlessness of our future, my work progressed as never
before. Now my days were more than a mere procession of dates, for each
was crowned with the glow of those few stolen moments with my darling
Venice.

Came the day of my first complete success. Some weeks previously I had
finally succeeded in transmitting a small wooden ball by radio. Perhaps
I should say that I had “dissolved” it into its vibrations, for it was
not until this later day that I had been able to materialize or
“receive” it after it had been “sent.” I see you start and re-read this
last sentence. I mean just what I say, and Marsden will bear me out, for
as you shall see, he has witnessed this and other such experiments here
in my laboratory. I have explained to him as much as I wanted him to
know of the process, in fact, just enough so that he believes that a
little intensive research and experimentation on his part will make him
master of my secret. But he is entirely ignorant of the most important
element, as well as of the manner of its employment.

Yes, after years of study and interrupted experimental research I was
enabled finally to disintegrate, without the aid of heat, a solid object
into its fundamental vibrations, transmit these vibrations into the
ether in the form of so-called “radio waves” which I then attracted and
condensed in my “receiving” apparatus, slowly damping their short kinked
vibration-rate until finally there was deposited the homogeneous whole,
identical in outline and displacement,--entirely unharmed from its
etheric transmigration!

My success in this, my life’s dream, was directly the result of our
discoveries on that bitter expedition into Afghanistan. All my life I
had been interested in the study of vibrations, but had achieved no
startling successes or keen expectations thereof until we stumbled upon
that strange mineral deposit on what was an otherwise ill-fated trip for
me. It was then that I realized that radioactive niton might solve my
hitherto insurmountable difficulty in the transmission of material
vibrations into electronic waves. My experiments thereafter, while
successful to the degree that I discovered several entirely new
principles of resonic harmonics, as well as an absolute refutation of
the quantum theory of radiation, fell far short of my hoped-for goal. At
that time I was including both helium and uranium in my improved cathode
projectors, and it was not until I had effected a more sympathetic
combination with thorium that I began to receive encouraging results. My
final success came with the substitution of actinium for the uranium and
the addition of polonium, plus a finer adjustment which I was able to
make in the vortices of my three modified Tesla coils, whose limitations
I had at first underrated. I was then enabled to filter my resonance
waves into pitch with my “electronic radiate rays,” as I called them,
with the success I shall soon describe.

Of course, all this is no clearer than a page of Sanskrit to you, nor do
I intend that it shall be otherwise. As I have said, such a secret is
far too potent to be unloosed upon a world of such delicately poised
nations, whose jaws are still reddened from their recent ravening. It
needs no explanation of mine to envision the terrible possibilities for
evil in the application of this great discovery. It shall go with me--to
return at some future, more enlightened time after another equally
single-minded investigator shall have stumbled upon it. It is this
latter thought which has caused me to drop the hints that I have. My
earnest hope is that you will permit the misguided Marsden to read the
preceding paragraph. In it he will note a reference to an element which
I have not mentioned to him before, and will enable him to obtain
certain encouraging results,--encouraging but to further efforts, to
more frantic attempts. But I digress.

With my success on inanimate objects, I plunged the more
enthusiastically into my work. I should have lost all track of time but
for my daily tryst with Venice. Her belief in me was the tonic which
spurred me on to further efforts after each series of meticulously
conducted experiments had crumbled into failure. It was the knowledge
that she awaited me which alone upheld me in those dark moments of
depression, which every searcher into the realms of the unknown must
encounter.

Then came the night of November 28th, the Great Night. After countless
failures, I finally succeeded in transmitting a live guinea pig through
the atmosphere and “received” it, alive and well, in the corner of my
laboratory. Think of it! A twist of a switch and the living, breathing
piglet slowly dissolved before my eyes and vanished along a pair of
wires to my aerial, whence it was transferred as a set of waves in the
ether to the receiving apparatus,--there to reincarnate into the living
organism once more, alive and breathing, unharmed by its extraordinary
journey! That night I strode out into the open and walked until dawn
suddenly impressed the gray world upon my oblivious exaltation, for I
was King of the Universe, a Weaver of Miracles.

Then it was that my great plan began to take shape. With renewed energy
I began the construction of a mammoth transmitter. At intervals I
“transmitted” stray cats and dogs of every description, filling several
books with notes wherein I recorded minutely the varying conditions of
my subjects before transmission. Invariably their condition upon being
“cohered” in the receiving tube, was excellent. In some cases, indeed,
minor ailments had entirely disappeared during their short passage
through the ether. What a study for the medical profession!

I had, of course, told Venice the object of my researches long ago, but
had never brought her to my laboratory for reasons of discretion. One
afternoon, however, I slipped her in under cover of the heavy downpour.
After I had warmed her with a cup of tea, before her astonished eyes I
transmitted an old she-cat which was afflicted with some sort of
rheumatism or paralysis of its hind legs. When its form began to
reappear in the transparent receiving tube, my darling gasped in awed
wonder. She was rendered utterly speechless, however, when I switched
off the current and released the animal from its crystal prison. And no
wonder, for it gambolled about like a young kitten, all trace of its
former malady having entirely disappeared! The impression upon Venice
was all that I had hoped for, and when I at length escorted her out into
the dusk, I felt her quick, awed glances flickering over me like the
reverence of a shy neophyte for the high priest.
