
All was set for the final act. I literally hurled myself into the
completion of my improved set. The large quantities of certain minerals
required caused me an unexpected delay. This I filled with
demonstrations in the presence of Marsden, whom I was encouraging as a
fellow radio enthusiast,--with considerable unexpected histrionic
ability on my part. It was so hard to keep my fingers off his throat! I
pretended to explain to him the important factors of my great secret,
and drilled him in the mechanical operation of the sets. I had divulged
to him also that my greatest desire was to demonstrate my principle on a
human being, and like all great scientific explorers, proposed to offer
myself as the subject. Venice had strenuously opposed the proposal until
the demonstration on the diseased cat, and even now viewed the entire
proposition with alarm. Yet I insisted that unless applied to human
beings my entire work went for naught, and I finally succeeded in
quieting her fears to a great extent.

At last I am ready. I have told my darling how it is impossible to
transmit anything metallic by the very nature of the conflicting rays
encountered. I have bemoaned the fact that, due to the softness of my
teeth since boyhood, my mouth is one mass of metallic fillings and
crowns, rendering it impossible for me to test the efficiency of my
life’s work. As I had hoped, she has volunteered herself as the subject
for the great experiment, for her white teeth are as yet innocent of
fillings. I have demurred and refused to listen to the idea, permitting
myself to be won over only after days of earnest argument on her part.
We are not to tell Marsden, for there is no doubt that his fanatical
love for her would refuse to tolerate the mere suggestion.

Tonight it shall be accomplished. There is no other way, for that
accursed husband of hers seems to progress in neither direction. He will
be nothing but a mud-buried anchor until the end of her days, while I--I
love her. What other excuse need be offered?

But to the facts. At eight o’clock that drug-soaked love pirate comes to
officiate at my transmission through space. I shall meet him with a
chloroformed soaked rag. Later he will awake to find himself effectively
gagged, with his hands and feet firmly shackled to the wall of a dark
corner of my laboratory. These shackles consist of armatures across the
poles of large electro-magnets which I have embedded in the walls. At
10:30, a time switch will cut off the current, releasing the wretch,
for, above all things, he must live. I debated sending a message for his
chauffeur to call for him here at the designated hour. I have decided
rather to trust to mechanical certitude than lay my plan open to
frustration because of some human vagary.

At nine o’clock Venice comes for the great experiment. Marsden has told
her that he will remain in the city over night, at my suggestion, so
that in case I fail to materialize after being “sent” he cannot be held
in connection with my disappearance. She does not know that I have had
my teeth extracted and have been using India rubber plates for nearly a
month. By the time she has arrived, the effects of the chloroform will
have entirely worn off from my would-be assistant, and I shall have had
plenty of time to introduce myself properly to him and explain the
evening’s program which has been so carefully arranged for his benefit.

Then he will have the excruciating pleasure of watching his beloved wife
dissolve into--nothingness! Soon thereafter he will witness the same
process repeated upon myself, for I have so adapted the apparatus that I
need no outside assistance other than a time-clock to actuate the
mechanism! Then, at the appointed hour, the current will be shut off and
the frenzied wretch will rush to the distant switch controlling the
receiving apparatus. As he throws the metal bars into their split
receptacles there will come a blinding flash, and behold--the apparatus
will have disappeared in a puff of crystalline particles! The secret has
returned whence it came!

Then will come that personally prepared hell for my mean spirited
forger. As I told you, he believes that he is in possession of enough of
the details of my secret to reconstruct the apparatus and duplicate my
success. The added details of this letter will assure him into an
idiotic confidence which will lead him on and on through partially
successful attempts. I know that no matter whether you sympathize with
my actions or not (and I am sure that you do not, for you never have),
your sense of justice will force you to show this letter to the proper
authorities in order to prevent a fatal bungling.

Meanwhile that miserable sneak will be frenzied with the knowledge that
at last, the lover he so long cheated of his loved one is now with her,
alone,--where he, her lawful husband, can never follow. And we shall be
together, unchanged, awaiting the day when some other enlightened mortal
solves Nature’s riddle, when we shall once more assume our earthly
forms, unhindered by other selfish manbeasts.

                                                Farewell,
                                                    Bromley Cranston.
