
"Sire, I, Henri Lothiere, am no sorcerer but a simple apothecary's
assistant. It was always my nature, from earliest youth, to desire to
delve into matters unknown to men; the secrets of the earth and sea and
sky, the knowledge hidden from us. I knew well that this was wicked,
that the Church teaches all we need to know and that heaven frowns when
we pry into its mysteries, but so strong was my desire to know, that
many times I concerned myself with matters forbidden.

"I had sought to know the nature of the lightning, and the manner of
flight of the birds, and the way in which fishes are able to live
beneath the waters, and the mystery of the stars. So when these
thunderclaps began to be heard in the part of Paris in which I lived, I
did not fear them so much as my neighbors. I was eager to learn only
what was causing them, for it seemed to me that their cause might be
learned.

"So I began to go to that field from which they issued, to study them. I
waited in it and twice I heard the great thunderclaps myself. I thought
they came from near the field's center, and I studied that place. But I
could see nothing there that was causing them. I dug in the ground, I
looked up for hours into the sky, but there was nothing. And still, at
intervals, the thunderclaps sounded.

"I still kept going to the field, though I knew that many of my
neighbors whispered that I was engaged in sorcery. Upon that morning of
the third day of June, it had occurred to me to take certain
instruments, such as loadstones, to the field, to see whether anything
might be learned with them. I went, a few superstitious ones following
me at a distance. I reached the field's center, and started the
examinations I had planned. Then came suddenly another thunderclap and
with it I passed from the sight of those who had followed and were
watching, vanished from view.

"Sire, I cannot well describe what happened in that moment. I heard the
thunderclap come as though from all the air around me, stunning my ears
with its terrible burst of sound. And at the same moment that I heard
it, I was buffeted as though by awful winds and seemed falling downward
through terrific depths. Then through the hellish uproar, I felt myself
bumping upon a hard surface, and the sounds quickly ceased from about
me.

"I had involuntarily closed my eyes at the great thunderclap, but now,
slowly, I opened them. I looked around me, first in stupefaction, and
then in growing amazement. For I was not in that familiar field at all,
sire, that I had been in a moment before. I was in a room, lying upon
its floor, and it was such a room as I had never seen before.

"Its walls were smooth and white and gleaming. There were windows in the
walls, and they were closed with sheets of glass so smooth and clear
that one seemed looking through a clear opening rather than through
glass. The floor was of stone, smooth and seamless as though carven from
one great rock, yet seeming not, in some way, to be stone at all. There
was a great circle of smooth metal inset in it, and it was on it that I
was lying.

"All around the room were many great things the like of which I had
never seen. Some seemed of black metal, seemed contrivances or machines
of some sort. Black cords of wire connected them to each other and from
part of them came a humming sound that did not stop. Others had glass
tubes fixed on the front of them, and there were square black plates on
which were many shining little handles and buttons.

"There was a sound of voices, and I turned to find that two men were
bending over me. They were men like myself, yet they were at the same
time like no men I had ever met! One was white-bearded and the other
plump and bare of face. Neither of them wore cloak or tunic or hose.
Instead they wore loose and straight-hanging garments of cloth.

"They were both greatly excited, it seemed, and were talking to each
other as they bent over me. I caught a word or two of their speech in a
moment, and found it was French they were talking. But it was not the
French I knew, being so strange and with so many new words as to be
almost a different language. I could understand the drift, though, of
what they were saying.

"'We have succeeded!' the plump one was shouting excitedly. 'We've
brought someone through at last!'

"'They will never believe it,' the other replied. 'They'll say it was
faked.'

"'Nonsense!' cried the first. 'We can do it again, Rastin; we can show
them before their own eyes!'

"They bent toward me, seeing me staring at them.

"'Where are you from?' shouted the plump-faced one. 'What time--what
year--what century?'

"'He doesn't understand, Thicourt,' muttered the white-bearded one.
'What year is this now, my friend?' he asked me.

"I found voice to answer. 'Surely, sirs, whoever you be, you know that
this is the year fourteen hundred and forty-four,' I said.

"That set them off again into a babble of excited talk, of which I could
make out only a word here and there. They lifted me up, seeing how sick
and weak I felt, and seated me in a strange, but very comfortable chair.
I felt dazed. The two were still talking excitedly, but finally the
white-bearded one, Rastin, turned to me. He spoke to me, very slowly, so
that I understood him clearly, and he asked me my name. I told him.

"'Henri Lothiere,' he repeated. 'Well, Henri, you must try to
understand. You are not now in the year 1444. You are five hundred years
in the future, or what would seem to you the future. This is the year
1944.'

"'And Rastin and I have jerked you out of your own time across five
solid centuries,' said the other, grinning.

"I looked from one to the other. 'Messieurs,' I pleaded, and Rastin
shook his head.

"'He does not believe,' he said to the other. Then to me, 'Where were
you just before you found yourself here, Henri?' he asked.

"'In a field at the outskirts of Paris,' I said.

"'Well, look from that window and see if you still believe yourself in
your 15th-century Paris.'
