
"I went to the window. I looked out. Mother of God, what a sight before
my eyes! The familiar gray little houses, the open fields behind them,
the saunterers in the dirt streets--all these were gone and it was a new
and terrible city that lay about me! Its broad streets were of stone and
great buildings of many levels rose on either side of them. Great
numbers of people, dressed like the two beside me, moved in the streets
and also strange vehicles or carriages, undrawn by horse or ox, that
rushed to and fro at undreamed-of speed! I staggered back to the chair.

"'You believe now, Henri?' asked the whitebeard, Rastin, kindly enough,
and I nodded weakly. My brain was whirling.

"He pointed to the circle of metal on the floor and the machines around
the room. 'Those are what we used to jerk you from your own time to this
one,' he said.

"'But how, sirs?' I asked. 'For the love of God, how is it that you can
take me from one time to another? Have ye become gods or devils?'

"'Neither the one nor the other, Henri,' he answered. 'We are simply
scientists, physicists--men who want to know as much as man can know and
who spend our lives in seeking knowledge.'

"I felt my confidence returning. These were men such as I had dreamed
might some day be. 'But what can you do with time?' I asked. 'Is not
time a thing unalterable, unchanging?'

"Both shook their heads. 'No, Henri, it is not. But lately have our men
of science found that out.'

"They went on to tell me of things that I could not understand. It
seemed they were telling that their men of knowledge had found time to
be a mere measurement, or dimension, just as length or breadth or
thickness. They mentioned names with reverence that I had never
heard--Einstein and De Sitter and Lorentz. I was in a maze at their
words.

"They said that just as men use force to move or rotate matter from one
point along the three known measurements to another, so might matter be
rotated from one point in time, the fourth measurement, to another, if
the right force were used. They said that their machines produced that
force and applied it to the metal circle from five hundred years before
to this time of theirs.

"They had tried it many times, they said, but nothing had been on the
spot at that time and they had rotated nothing but the air above it from
the one time to the other, and the reverse. I told them of the
thunderclaps that had been heard at the spot in the field and that had
made me curious. They said that they had been caused by the changing of
the air above the spot from the one time to the other in their trials. I
could not understand these things.

"They said then that I had happened to be on the spot when they had
again turned on their force and so had been rotated out of my own time
into theirs. They said that they had always hoped to get someone living
from a distant time in that way, since such a man would be a proof to
all the other men of knowledge of what they had been able to do.

"I could not comprehend, and they saw and told me not to fear. I was not
fearful, but excited at the things that I saw around me. I asked of
those things and Rastin and Thicourt laughed and explained some of them
to me as best they could. Much they said that I did not understand but
my eyes saw marvels in that room of which I had never dreamed.

"They showed me a thing like a small glass bottle with wires inside, and
then told me to touch a button beneath it. I did so and the bottle shone
with a brilliant light exceeding that of scores of candles. I shrank
back, but they laughed, and when Rastin touched the button again, the
light in the glass thing vanished. I saw that there were many of these
things in the ceiling.

"They showed me also a rounded black object of metal with a wheel at the
end. A belt ran around the wheel and around smaller wheels connected to
many machines. They touched a lever on this object and a sound of
humming came from it and the wheel turned very fast, turning all the
machines with the belt. It turned faster than any man could ever have
turned it, yet when they touched the lever again, its turning ceased.
They said that it was the power of the lightning in the skies that they
used to make the light and to turn that wheel!

"My brain reeled at the wonders that they showed. One took an instrument
from the table that he held to his face, saying that he would summon the
other scientists or men of knowledge to see their experiment that night.
He spoke into the instrument as though to different men, and let me hear
voices from it answering him! They said that the men who answered were
leagues separated from him!

"I could not believe--and yet somehow I did believe! I was half-dazed
with wonder and yet excited too. The white-bearded man, Rastin, saw
that, and encouraged me. Then they brought a small box with an opening
and placed a black disk on the box, and set it turning in some way. A
woman's voice came from the opening of the box, singing. I shuddered
when they told me that the woman was one who had died years before.
Could the dead speak thus?
