
"How can I describe what I saw there? Another box or cabinet there was,
with an opening also. I thought it was like that from which I had heard
the dead woman singing, but they said it was different. They touched
buttons on it and a voice came from it speaking in a tongue I knew not.
They said that the man was speaking thousands of leagues from us, in a
strange land across the uncrossed western ocean, yet he seemed speaking
by my side!

"They saw how dazed I was by these things, and gave me wine. At that I
took heart, for wine, at least, was as it had always been.

"'You will want to see Paris--the Paris of our time, Henri?' asked
Rastin.

"'But it is different--terrible--' I said.

"'We'll take you,' Thicourt said, 'but first your clothes--'

"He got a long light coat that they had me put on, that covered my tunic
and hose, and a hat of grotesque round shape that they put on my head.
They led me then out of the building and into the street.

"I gazed astoundedly along that street. It had a raised walk at either
side, on which many hundreds of people moved to and fro, all dressed in
as strange a fashion. Many, like Rastin and Thicourt, seemed of gentle
blood, yet, in spite of this, they did not wear a sword or even a
dagger. There were no knights or squires, or priests or peasants. All
seemed dressed much the same.

"Small lads ran to and fro selling what seemed sheets of very thin white
parchment, many times folded and covered with lettering. Rastin said
that these had written in them all things that had happened through all
the world, even but hours before. I said that to write even one of these
sheets would take a clerk many days, but they said that the writing was
done in some way very quickly by machines.

"In the broad stone street between the two raised walks were rushing
back and forth the strange vehicles I had seen from the window. There
was no animal pulling or pushing any one of them, yet they never halted
their swift rush, and carried many people at unthinkable speed.
Sometimes those who walked stepped before the rushing vehicles, and then
from them came terrible warning snarls or moans that made the walkers
draw back.

"One of the vehicles stood at the walk's edge before us, and we entered
it and sat side by side on a soft leather seat. Thicourt sat behind a
wheel on a post, with levers beside him. He touched these and a humming
sound came from somewhere in the vehicle and then it too began to rush
forward. Faster and faster along the street it went, yet neither of them
seemed afraid.

"Many thousands of these vehicles were moving swiftly through the
streets about us. We passed on, between great buildings and along wider
streets, my eyes and ears numbed by what I saw about me. Then the
buildings grew smaller, after we had gone for miles through them, and
we were passing through the city's outskirts. I could not believe,
hardly, that it was Paris in which I was.

"We came to a great flat and open field outside the city and there
Thicourt stopped and we got out of the vehicle. There were big buildings
at the field's end, and I saw other vehicles rolling out of them across
the field, ones different from any I had yet seen, with flat winglike
projections on either side. They rolled out over the field very fast and
then I cried out as I saw them rising from the ground into the air.
Mother of God, they were flying! The men in them were flying!

"Rastin and Thicourt took me forward to the great buildings. They spoke
to men there and one brought forward one of the winged cars. Rastin told
me to get in, and though I was terribly afraid, there was too terrible a
fascination that drew me in. Thicourt and Rastin entered after me, and
we sat in seats with the other man. He had before him levers and
buttons, while at the car's front was a great thing like a double-oar or
paddle. A loud roaring came and that double-blade began to whirl so
swiftly that I could not see it. Then the car rolled swiftly forward,
bumping on the ground, and then ceased to bump. I looked down, then
shuddered. The ground was already far beneath! I too, was flying in the
air!

"We swept upward at terrible speed that increased steadily. The thunder
of the car was terrific, and, as the man at the levers changed their
position, we curved around and over downward and upward as though birds.
Rastin tried to explain to me how the car flew, but it was all too
wonderful, and I could not understand. I only knew that a wild thrilling
excitement held me, and that it were worth life and death to fly thus,
if but for once, as I had always dreamed that men might some day do.

"Higher and higher we went. The earth lay far beneath and I saw now that
Paris was indeed a mighty city, its vast mass of buildings stretching
away almost to the horizons below us. A mighty city of the future that
it had been given my eyes to look on!

"There were other winged cars darting to and fro in the air about us,
and they said that many of these were starting or finishing journeys of
hundreds of leagues in the air. Then I cried out as I saw a great shape
coming nearer us in the air. It was many rods in length, tapering to a
point at both ends, a vast ship sailing in the air! There were great
cabins on its lower part and in them we glimpsed people gazing out,
coming and going inside, dancing even! They told me that vast ships of
the air like this sailed to and fro for thousands of leagues with
hundreds inside them.

"The huge vessel of the air passed us and then our winged car began to
descend. It circled smoothly down to the field like a swooping bird,
and, when we landed there, Rastin and Thicourt led me back to the
ground-vehicle. It was late afternoon by then, the sun sinking westward,
and darkness had descended by the time we rolled back into the great
city.

"But in that city was not darkness! Lights were everywhere in it,
flashing brilliant lights that shone from its mighty buildings and that
blinked and burned and ran like water in great symbols upon the
buildings above the streets. Their glare was like that of day! We
stopped before a great building into which Rastin and Thicourt led me.

"It was vast inside and in it were many people in rows on rows of seats.
I thought it a cathedral at first but saw soon that it was not. The wall
at one end of it, toward which all in it were gazing, had on it pictures
of people, great in size, and those pictures were moving as though
themselves alive! And they were talking one to another, too, as though
with living voices! I trembled. What magic!

"With Rastin and Thicourt in seats beside me, I watched the pictures
enthralled. It was like looking through a great window into strange
worlds. I saw the sea, seemingly tossing and roaring there before me,
and then saw on it a ship, a vast ship of size incredible, without sails
or oars, holding thousands of people. I seemed on that ship as I
watched, seemed moving forward with it. They told me it was sailing over
the western ocean that never men had crossed. I feared!

"Then another scene, land appearing from the ship. A great statue,
upholding a torch, and we on the ship seemed passing beneath it. They
said that the ship was approaching a city, the city of New York, but
mists hid all before us. Then suddenly the mists before the ship cleared
and there before me seemed the city.
