
He broke off and glanced up at some people who were threading through
the restaurant toward our table. There came a man followed by a couple.
The lone man I knew, although I never remember his name. He's a quiet
little fellow who smokes what looks like his father's pipe. Joey says
he's past forty and still lives with his folks, who treat him like a
child.

One of the pair was Jinx MacDougal. He turns out a fantastic quantity
of detective fiction. None of his yarns are outstanding; in fact
they're all on a consistent pulp level. That happens to be why he sells
so much. Editors can always depend on Jinx never to fail them.

Jinx had a stranger with him. He was a tall, slender young man with
scanty, tow-colored hair. He wore thick glasses that made his eyes look
blurry and he was dressed in a sweater and ridiculously tight little
knickers. He smiled shyly, and I could swear his teeth were false, they
were so even.

I said, "You've got a helluva nerve, Jinx, if this guy's an editor."
And I really meant it. Editors are taboo at the luncheon, it being the
only chance we get to knock them in unison.

Jinx said, "Hi, everybody! This here's a white man that'll interest
you. Name of Dugan. Found him up in one of the publishing offices
trying to locate the pulp slaves. Says he's got a story."

I said, "Pass, friend, and have a drink on us."

Jinx sat and Dugan sat. He smiled again and gazed at us eagerly as
though we were the flower of American Letters. Then he studied the
table and it looked as though he were itemizing the plates and glasses
all the while Jinx was making introductions.

Belcher said, "Another customer for you, Joey. Even if Jinx hadn't
given it away, I could have told you he was a writer. Land-sakes! I can
smell the manuscript in his back pocket."

Dugan looked embarrassed. He said, "Oh no--Really--I've just got a
story idea, so to speak, I--"

He said at lot more but I couldn't understand him. He mumbled something
like Mallison, only his speech was very sharp and clipped. It sounded
like a phonograph record with every other syllable cut out.

Jinx said, "Dugan comes from your home town, Mallison."

"Whereabouts?" Mallison asked.

"Knights Road."

"Knights Road? You sure?"

Dugan nodded.

Mallison said, "Hell, man, that's impossible. Knights Road starts
outside the town and runs through the old quarry."

"Oh--" Dugan looked flustered. "Well, there's a new vention."

"A new what?"

"Vention--" Dugan stopped. Then he said, "A new development. That's a
slang word."

Mallison said, "Why, man, I was back home less than a month ago. Wasn't
any development then."

Belcher said, "Maybe it's very new."

Dugan didn't say anything more. I hadn't listened much because I was
busy watching his fingers. He had one hand partially concealed under
the table, but I could see that he was fumbling nervously with an odd
contraption that looked like a piece of old clock.

It was a square of metal the size of a match box, and at one end was
a coil of wire like a watch-spring. On both faces of the box were
tiny buttons, like adding machine keys. Dugan kept jiggling the thing
absently, and pressing the buttons. I could hear the syncopated clicks.

I thought, _This guy is really soft in the head. He plays with things._

Belcher said, "Sure you're not a writer?"

Dugan shook his head, then glanced at Joey. Joey smiled a little and
turned away because he's very shy about ethics and such. He doesn't
want people to think he runs around trying to get writers on his string.

Mallison said to Jinx, "Well, what in hell is this story?"

Jinx said, "I don't know. Ask him."

They all looked at Junior G-Man. I wanted to warn him not to spill
anything because pulp writers are leeches. They'll suck the blood right
out of your brain. You have to copyright your dialogue at the Tuesday
luncheons.

Dugan said, "It's--it's about a Time Machine."

We all groaned and I didn't worry about Dugan's ideas any more after
that.

Joey said, "Oh God, not that! The market's sick of time stories. You
couldn't sell one with Shakespeare's name on it."

Dugan actually looked startled.

"What's the matter?" Belcher asked, showing off his erudition. "You
got a manuscript with Shakespeare's name on it? Discover a Shakespeare
autograph on a pulp story?" He laughed uproariously as though he'd
cracked a joke at my expense.

Dugan said, "N-no--only that's the story. I mean--" He faltered and
then said, "I wish you'd let me just tell you this story."

We said, "Sure, go ahead."
