
"Well," Dugan began, "perhaps it isn't very original at that, but
it's what you might call provocative. The scene is the Twenty-third
Century--over three hundred years from now. At a great American
university, physicists have devised a--a Time Machine. It's a startling
invention, of course, just as the invention of electric light was
startling; but its operation is based on sane physical laws--"

"Never mind the explanations," Belcher interrupted. "We've all alibied
a Time Machine at one time or another. Land-sakes! You don't even have
to any more. You just write 'Time Machine' and the readers take the
rest for granted."

"When the story begins," Dugan continued, "the machine has been in use
for several years. But for the first time it's to be used for literary
purposes. This is because back in the first half of the Twentieth
Century there lived a great writer. He was so great that modern critics
call him the New Shakespeare. He's called that not only for his genius,
but because, like the original Shakespeare, almost nothing is known of
his life."

Mallison said, "That's impossible."

"Not altogether," I argued. "It's conceivable that wars and
unprecedented bombings and fires could destroy records. Why even today
there are gaps in the lives of contemporary artists that will never be
filled up."

"To hell with that!" Mallison said. "I still say it's impossible."

Dugan gave me a grateful look. He said, "Anyway, that's about what
happened. The literature department of the university is going to send
one of its research men back through time to gather material on the
life of the new Shakespeare. This man is an expert in ancient English.
He's shuttled back into the Twentieth Century, equipped with camera and
stenographic devices and all that. In the short period at his disposal,
he attempts to get hold of his man."

I said, "It's a cute idea. Imagine going back to the old Mermaid Tavern
and buying Marlowe a drink."

Mallison said, "It's a helluva dull story."

"I don't know about that," Belcher said. "I did something of the sort
a couple of years ago. Got a cent and a half for it, eh Joey? Also a
bonus."

Joey said, "Say, Dugan, you're not cribbing Belcher's yarn, are you?"

"Certainly not!" Dugan looked shocked. "Well, the research man had
less than a day. There was some trouble locating the new Shakespeare's
address, and when he did, it was already late at night. Now here's the
first little surprise. The man lived in the Bronx."

We smiled back at him because most of us live in the Bronx. Maybe it
was a kind of sour smile, but we appreciated the irony. No Bohemian
Greenwich Village, no romantic New England retreat--just unadulterated
Bronx.

Dugan said, "He lived in an ordinary apartment house, one like a
million others. The research man hadn't time enough for formality, so
at three in the morning he learned how to operate the self-service
elevator, went up to the apartment, and broke in to snoop around.

"He expected, at least, to find something different--to see in the
furniture and decorations and books an outward sign of the new
Shakespeare's great talent. But it was just a plain apartment--so plain
that it needs no description. When I say that there are a million
others like it, I've described it down to the ultimate detail."

"What'd he expect," Joey asked, "genius?"

"Isn't that what we all expect of genius?" Dugan countered. "Certainly
the research man was disappointed. He sneaked a look at the sleeping
genius--and saw a dull, undistinguished person thrashing ungracefully
about on the bed. Nevertheless, he crept about silently, taking motion
pictures and--"

"At three A.M.?"

"Oh well," Dugan said, "cameras of the Twenty-third Century and all
that, you know."

"Could be," Jinx said. "Infra-red photography."

The little guy with the pipe bobbed his head as though he'd invented
infra-red rays.

"Then," Dugan went on, "he went to the new Shakespeare's desk and
gathered all the manuscripts he could find, because in his time there
were no surviving manuscripts from his hand. And now--here's the final
surprise."

"Don't tell me," Jinx said. "He'd gone to the wrong apartment?"

Belcher said, "No, that's what I used."

"The surprise is," Dugan said, "that the research man is doing this
work for his doctorate, and he knows he'll never get his degree because
even coming back to the time of the new Shakespeare he can't gather
enough material!"

Dugan looked around expectantly, but it'd laid an egg. There was an
uncomfortable pause while Mallison mumbled bitterly to himself. Jinx
was very unhappy and tried to say complimentary things. I suppose he
felt responsible.

Only I wasn't doing much supposing because I had the most peculiar
sensation.

I believed Dugan's story.
