
I was thinking of that manuscript that'd blown out the window and I was
trying to remember whether I'd used a paper weight to anchor it down. I
was thinking of that gadget with buttons and I was realizing how this
mysterious Dugan'd slipped from one tense to another--which is a thing
all writers are conscious of and which began to have psychological
import for me.

But the most convincing thing of all was how the others were
looking at Dugan. Belcher was staring keenly from under his black
eyebrows--Belcher, who wrote that sort of stuff and who should have
been sophisticated. The little guy with the pipe was absolutely
electrified. I knew it couldn't be the story because the story was
lousy even for pulp.

Finally Dugan said, "That's all there is. How d'you like it?"

Mallison said, "It stinks!" and probed in his pockets for cigarettes.

"What was this new Shakespeare's name?" Belcher asked slowly.

Dugan said, "I haven't decided yet."

The little guy took the pipe out of his mouth. "What was the name of
the story he took?"

Belcher said, "Yes, what was it?"

Dugan shrugged and smiled. "I haven't decided yet. It's not really
important, is it?"

I said, "Dugan, when was that manuscript taken?"

I know it was foolish, but I had to ask--and none of the others seemed
to think it peculiar. They leaned forward with me and waited for
Dugan's answer. He looked at me, still smiling, and as I stared at
those blurry eyes behind the vast thick lenses, I began to shake with
uncertainty. In all that blur there was a strangeness, a something--Oh,
hell!

Suddenly Belcher began to laugh. He laughed so hard he overturned his
wine bottle and we all had to scurry out of the wet. When it came time
to sit down again, the spell was broken. Anyway, the luncheon was over.

When I got outside, Joey was standing there with Dugan. He was saying,
"I'm afraid you haven't got much of a yarn there."

Dugan said, "I suppose so." Only he didn't seem put out. He shook hands
with us cheerfully, said he hoped he'd see us again, and turned toward
Broadway.

We all waved once, just to be polite, and then lost all interest. We
turned on Joey to see if we could get the price of that lunch out of
him, and we kidded Jinx about the lousy stories he picked up. Maybe it
was because some of us felt a little self-conscious. I know I glanced
over my shoulder and felt guilty when I noticed Dugan standing on the
corner. He was watching us intently and adjusting his glasses with both
hands.

Then I stopped haggling with Joey and turned around because--well,
because it occurred to me that cameras of the Twenty-third Century
could be so small you couldn't see them at that distance. All that
flash and glitter couldn't be coming just from Dugan's glasses. Yes,
brother, I turned around while Gray's _Elegy_ went thrumming through my
head.

It could be Belcher or Jinx or Mallison, or the little guy with the
pipe, but I don't think so. I've got a pretty good idea who it is,
because something suddenly occurred to me, I turned around to give
Dugan a nice full-face and I waved....

Because one of those scraps of paper I thought had been blown in my
window was marked very peculiarly in red: _Load Only in Total Darkness.
Expires Dec. 18, 2241._