
From the outer darkness of space came a tiny shape, speeding on and on
toward this sun and captive planet. It was going from nowhere to nowhere
at a terrific rate.

There are many shapes adrift in space, bits of rock, celestial debris
awash in the infinite oceans of ether. But this shape was not a rock. It
was of metal, and within it was a man named Peter McCarthy.

He was a very hungry man, and a very thirsty man, and when the great red
sun reached out and pulled his ship to itself, Pete in his fuel depleted
craft gave silent thanks that at last the end had come.

This would be a quick clean death in the flames, and Pete turned his
back on the sun and waited. But when he heard the air screaming about
his hull, he turned back to the bow view panes again.

"Well, I'll be damned!" cried Peter McCarthy. For a huge green planet
had pushed itself between him and the sun, and he did not like that at
all. "It's another of cruel Fate's devices to lengthen my torments!"
said Peter, and wept salt tears of weakness.

But his hands responded automatically. They thrust to the controls in
front of him and fired the long unused jets. A bit of fuel had collected
in the bottom of his tanks, and the jets blasted out, the ship lifted,
held itself upright on a pillar of sudden flame. Pete let it sink,
swiftly but gently, so that it fell hissing into the rolling green seas
without smashing to bits.

It sank down through the green waters like a stone, and McCarthy fell
weakly across the controls, and did not move a finger to change her
downward course. In truth, he hoped the ship would never come up again.
He was sick and tired of fighting against death.

Hours passed, and he slept, dreaming vague little dreams of eating and
drinking and flirting with the girls in the streets of Port Freedom. No
light came through the single hemisphere of transparence in front of his
nose, and he finally switched on the search-beam on the ship's nose.

"Stuck in the mud, I hope, jade that she is, and good for her, making me
die like this," Pete muttered, hating even the cracked crazy sound of
his own voice.

But the bowlight shafted ahead in brilliant clarity, piercing no ocean
depths or ooze or mud-flats, but glancing over the racing ripples of a
flowing river. Above the river surface the rocks came down, so low Pete
could hear them touch the hull, scrape, grind free, as their touch sent
the craft deeper in the hurrying water.

"Holy old Harry," growled McCarthy, rubbing at his slackened features.
"She fell right through the bottom of the sea into some subterranean
flow...." He yawned, and stretched a little, and cursed again. "Sure, I
couldn't expect her to do anything else, with my luck aboard her. There
were trees and sunlight, and water ... ah, water ... up there,
somewhere. I saw them, falling in, I did. Do I land where I can get
anything like water? Hell no! I crash right on down into this hole!" He
laughed a weak bitter laugh. Then he leaned back and began to sing
through cracked and bleeding lips:

    "_There's a hole in the bottom of the sea;
    There's a rock in a hole in the bottom of the sea;
    There's a crab on a rock in the hole in the bottom...._"

And he began to snore, having fallen asleep.
