
The voyager lay unconscious for many days. While he slept, dozens of the
weird "angels" hovered over him and what they poured down his throat and
what they injected into his veins he never knew. But when at last he
awakened he felt like the man he had been twenty years before, young in
heart and with a boundless happiness of well-being surging up in him
like a great spring of Omar's wine.

So waking, he sprang to his feet as he had used to do in the morning,
unable to wait to learn what new and curious thing the day would bear
for him. He looked about him with eyes that could not believe, and he
was a long time remembering how he had got here or where he was. And
when he did, it was to wonder why he had been so sunk in despair and so
ready to accept death.

One of the tall glowing shapes came and bowed low before him, and
McCarthy saw for an instant she was not a living woman at all, nor any
angel either!

"Why you're a robot kind of thing!" cried Pete, recoiling in sudden
distrust, for there was something revolting to him about a metal machine
masquerading as a human form.

The glowing woman-shape straightened proudly, and her long fiery eyes
narrowed a little, and her voice like distant tinkling magic murmured
softly, "Are you so very sure I am not alive, man from afar?"

McCarthy kept looking at her, and she changed before his very eyes, and
at last his wits awoke, so that he said gallantly, "Sure and you're as
beautiful a woman as ever I saw in my life! I'm owing you my life, and
I'd be the last would want to hurt your feelings. Nobody could be
sorrier for the mistake than I am."

Now whatever she was, he could no longer tell her from a living woman of
great beauty, for she had changed before his eyes from a metallic
monstrosity of glowing terror to a softly curved beauty that would have
graced the stage of any musical show, and her voice was far too good for
any show that Pete had ever listened to. As she moved closer to him, her
weirdly lovely voice whispered, "So my arms are hard as steel, man from
space?" and put her arms around him, and they were soft and firm and
fine arms to feel indeed.

Peter McCarthy, in sudden wonder, kissed the glowing weird lips of the
lovely thing, and the taste was different but far more lovely than any
woman's lips had ever been before.

"Now may God strike me, but I must be losing my wits," swore McCarthy,
"but I had thought you were made of steel for sure!"

Somewhere afar there came a music of laughter; he could not exactly hear
it but he felt it, as if the very walls were amused with him. It was a
powerful laugh, with an undertinkling to it, like a distant bell beneath
water, struck by a little stone so that it gave out both strong sounds
and little sounds.... A very beautiful laugh but very strange to hear.

With the sound of that laughter an awe came to McCarthy; he felt the
touch of some terrific magic, and he gave up trying to understand what
was happening to him.

"This is a strange place," he muttered, rubbing his chin. "A strange
place indeed. Could ye tell me, Miss Angel, what place this is and how I
can expect to get along here and why you're so good to a poor wanderer
like myself?"

The angel-shape--which second by second was getting to be more and more
the shape of ultimate beauty to his eye, as if she was learning the way
of it better and better right out of his mind, as if she was taking from
his own thinking the colors and the shapes and form and spirit that
would please him most--gave a laugh that was very like the strange great
tinkling sound from nowhere. Her voice was like sparkling water falling
on suspended crystals that rang musically, and she looked into his eyes
out of her own fiery strange eyes of terrible beauty.

"This is the best of all possible places you could have come to, and
your host is the best of all possible hosts and what more do you need to
know today, Peter McCarthy?"

For an instant a shadow passed over the strange glowing eyes of the
angel-shape, as if she remembered something she did not want to
remember, and he asked:

"What is that shadow of trouble, if this is so good a place for me?"

She answered him quickly as the shadow passed from her eyes: "That
shadow is the future, which will eventually get into even this
stronghold and end it all. But until that day comes, why you at least
can make merry. And I will help you...."
