
One of the great finned hands of her fanned the air in a gesture of
negation. "Not too much fun, McCarthy. But interesting, for I have never
met a man of your race, so child-like and simple and so easily made to
believe in my magic. And have you not enjoyed this year with me?"

"It is not that, sorceress. It is that my heart is snared here, like an
ape in a cage and will never again be free. What kind of life can please
me now? After this life you have shown me, how can I ever want to
breathe common air again?"

Her laugh was like music under water, like bells ringing in the deeps of
the sea. Her hand touched him lightly, and the touch was like lightning
from heaven striking him with eternal love. And the thunder of that
lightning pealed through all his being, thunder on thunder of vast
meaning, and there was nothing from his dreams to compare with the
beauty and the wonder of the simple touch of her hand.

McCarthy turned his face up to the vast woman-shape above him, the
wonder of her touch shining from his eyes, so that she laughed again as
she saw the effect upon him.

"If there had been more like you among my people, I would not be here
alone," she murmured, like distant sorrowful music above him, her voice
that was so much more than a voice. "But my people were sated with
wonder and tired of love and weary with having too much. They went off
and left me because I said I wanted to remain--to die. And my heart was
sad, but something in me was very glad to be alone. Now I am glad that
you are here! But I am afraid that there is no way you can leave now."

McCarthy stretched out at the foot of her throne, a grin on his square
Irish face. "So, I can't get away again! Now that's the sorriest word
I've heard for years. Sure I'm the unluckiest mortal that ever was
born."

The dark goddess laughed again, and there was something of a sweet child
in the bell-tones of her laugh, that died away in soft and softer echoes
in the endless dark about them.

... Something of a shy child, who had never been loved, and found the
idea infinitely amusing. Her voice became softer and more beautiful
still, and McCarthy was endlessly happy to hear that laugh, for it said
so much stronger than any words could--"You are welcome here, you sad
Irishman." And her voice said, "And do you want your angel-shapes and
their wine back again, or do you want some other thing I might create
for you out of these forgotten energy converters?"

McCarthy grinned contentedly, and rubbed his roughened face against the
smooth calf of her leg beside him. "D'ye think I should shave, goddess?"

The great beautiful face bent over and examined his Irish countenance,
the rugged features and twinkling blue eyes and the red hearty cheeks of
him. "Why, man-child, you are quite good-looking as you are!"

"And as for them angels and their wine," added McCarthy, "don't you know
one look at you is worth a thousand angels? Can't you see in my mind and
know ... I forget, ye've been doing that for one solid year. Sure, you
green angel you, why should a man want any other shape or sound or wine
than yourself?"
