

Kate did not think of the poor woman and her hungry children when she
made up her mind to tell her mother such a monstrous lie.

She did not think how very wicked it was to deceive her mother, just to
escape, perhaps, a severe rebuke for her carelessness.

She felt all the time that she was doing wrong, but she tried so hard
to cover it up, that her conscience was not permitted to do its whole
duty.

When we are tempted to do wrong, something within us tells us not to do
it; but we often struggle to get rid of this feeling, and if we succeed
the first time, it is easier the next time. And the more we do wrong,
the easier it becomes to put down the little voice within us.

It was so with Kate. She had told falsehoods before, or it would not
have been so easy for her to do it this time. If we do not take care of
our consciences, as we do of our caps and bonnets, they are soon
spoiled.

Did you ever notice that one of the wheels on your little wagon, when it
becomes loose, soon wears out? The more it sags over on one side, the
weaker it grows. While the wheel stands up straight, it does not seem
to wear out at all.

It is just so with your conscience--your power to tell right from wrong.
While you keep it up straight, it works well, and never wears out. But
when it gets a little out of order, it grows worse very fast, and is not
of much more value than a lighthouse without any light in it.

Kate's conscience had begun to sag over on one side. It was growing
weak, and did not remind her of her wrong deeds with force enough to
make itself heeded. If she could only escape the reproof of her mother,
she did not care.

Thus moved by the wicked counsel of Ben Tinker, she hastened home. She
tried to look as if nothing had happened, but her eyes were still very
red from crying; and her mother wanted to know what had made her cry.

"Fanny Flynn struck me, and pulled my 'shaker' over my face," replied
Kate.

"What did she do that for?"

"She asked me to give her a drink of the milk, and because I wouldn't,
she struck me," answered Kate, placing her pail upon the kitchen table.

"She is a naughty girl, and I will go and see her mother about it. What
did she say to you?"

"She asked me for a drink of the milk."

"What did you answer?"

"I told her it was for Mrs. O'Brien's children, and that it wouldn't be
right for me to give it to her, and I would not."

"Well, I will see to that. I think it is a pity if I can't send one of
my children out on an errand of charity without her being treated in
this manner. She shall suffer for it."

"She is a naughty girl, mother; and I never mean to speak to her again
as long as I live," said Kate, with much apparent earnestness.

"You did right not to give her any of the milk, and I am glad you did
not. I am happy that my daughter has been brave enough to do right, and
even to suffer for doing it. You are a good girl, Kate."

"I meant to be, mother."

"What did Mrs. O'Brien say when you gave her the milk?" continued Mrs.
Lamb.

"She said she was much obliged to you," replied Kate, not daring to look
her mother in the face.

"Did you see the children?"

"Yes, mother."

Mrs. Lamb was going to ask more questions about the family, but
something called her attention away, and Kate was saved from telling
more falsehoods.

She took a book and tried to read, but she could not, for she did not
feel like a good girl. The little voice within told her how wicked she
had been, and she began to wish that she had not deceived her mother.

While she sat with the book in her hand, her father came home; and her
mother told him what Fanny Flynn had done. He was very angry when he had
heard the story, and asked Kate a great many questions about the affair.

"You did well, Kate, and I am glad you were so brave and so smart,"
said Mr. Lamb.

"Of course I could not give her any of the milk when it was for the
poor widow's hungry children."

"You did right, Kate," repeated her father. "The poor children might
have had to go to bed hungry if you had given up the milk to that bad
girl."

"I know it, father."

"Only think what a sad thing it would have been if the poor little ones
had been sent hungry and crying to bed. That Fanny Flynn must be taken
care of. When little girls get to be so bold as that, it is high time
something was done."

"I think so, too, father."

"It is time for you to go to bed now, Kate," said her mother.

"I am ready, mother, for I am tired as I can be."

Kate was glad to get away from her father and mother, for while they
were praising her for her good conduct, she knew very well that she did
not deserve it.

What would her parents think if they knew that she had spilled all the
milk on the ground? What would they say to her if they found out that
she had told them so many lies?

The more she thought of her conduct, the more she felt that she had done
wrong. She now saw that, if she had returned home and told her mother
the truth, she would have excused the fault, and sent another pail of
milk to the poor sick woman's hungry children.

She wished she had done so, for it would have been a great deal better
to be scolded for her carelessness than to feel as guilty as she now
felt. She was sure that it was far better to suffer a great deal than to
do even a little wrong.

She was not satisfied either that her mother would have scolded her, if
she had stated the whole truth to her--that Fanny Flynn had made her
spill the milk.

She went to bed; but when her mother bade her good night, and took the
lamp in her hand, she begged her to leave it, for she did not like to be
alone in the dark.

It seemed just as though a wicked spirit was tormenting her; and though
she was in the habit of going to sleep without a light, the darkness was
terrible to her at this time. She did not even wish to be left alone,
but she dared not ask her mother to stay with her.

When Mrs. Lamb had gone out, Kate covered her face wholly under the
bedclothes, and shut her eyes as close as she could, trying in this
manner to go to sleep. But her guilty conscience gave her no rest.

Then she opened her eyes, and looked around the room; but every thing in
the chamber seemed to mock and reproach her. Again and again she shut
her eyes, and tried to sleep.

The little voice within would speak now, in the silence of her chamber.
She had never felt so bad before; perhaps because she had never been so
wicked before. Do you want to know why she suffered so much? It was
because she could not keep from her mind those hungry, crying children.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: KATE TELLS THE WHOLE STORY.]



