

Poor Kate! She had certainly never been so wicked in her life before.
The words of her father still lingered in her ears, and she could almost
hear the moans of those hungry, crying children.

She had never been sent to bed in her life without her supper, and it
looked like a dreadful thing to her--perhaps even more dreadful than it
really was.

If there had been nothing but the falsehoods she had told, she might
have gone to sleep; but it was sad to think that she had deprived the
poor children of their supper, and sent them hungry to bed. This seemed
to be the most wicked part of her conduct.

I do not know how many times she turned over in the bed, nor how many
times she pulled the clothes over her eyes to shut out the sad picture
of those hungry and crying children that would come up before her, in
spite of all she could do to prevent it.

She tried to think of other things--of the scene with Fanny; of her
school; of a picnic party she had attended on the first of May; of
almost every thing, indeed; but it did no good. The poor children could
not be banished from her mind.

Kate had been sick with the measels, with the scarlet fever, and the
mumps; and she remembered how bad she felt at these times; but it seemed
to her now that she would rather have all these diseases at once than
suffer from a guilty conscience.

When she was sick, her mother bent over her and pitied her, and did all
she could to ease her pain; and even when she was burning with fever,
and racked with pain, she felt happier than she did now.

She could not inform her mother how bad she felt, for that would expose
her guilt. She heard the clock strike nine, and every moment appeared to
her like an hour. Those poor little children constantly haunted her;
whether her eyes were open or shut, still she saw them crying, and heard
them moaning, and begging their sick mother to give them some supper.

O, Kate! how severely was she punished for the sin she had committed!
Her mother and her father had praised her, but still she was unhappy.

Slowly, very slowly, the time passed away, and she heard the clock
strike ten. She could endure her sufferings no longer; and she burst
into tears, sobbing and moaning as if her heart would break.

For some time she cried; but as her distress increased, she sobbed and
moaned so loud that her father and mother, who were in the adjoining
room, heard her, and hastened into the room to find out what ailed her.

"What is the matter, my child?" anxiously asked her mother. "Haven't you
been asleep since you went to bed?"

"No, mother," sobbed Kate.

"What ails you? Are you sick?"

"No, mother."

"What are you crying for, then?"

"O mother!"

"Why, what ails you, child? Have you been frightened?"

"No, mother."

"Tell us what ails you, Kate," added her father.

Both of her parents were greatly alarmed about her, for they loved
their little girl very much; and they knew that something must ail her,
or she would not have lain awake so long, or have cried so bitterly.

"Can't you tell us what ails you, Kate?" inquired her mother, very
tenderly.

"I have been very naughty, mother," replied Kate, almost choking with
emotion.

"Naughty, child?"

"Yes, mother."

"I thought you had been very good," added Mr. Lamb.

"No, I have not; I have been very wicked, and you will never forgive
me."

"Why, what have you done, Kate? How strange you act, my child!"

"I can't help it, mother. If you will forgive me this time, I will never
be so wicked again while I live."

"Tell us all about it, Kate, and we will forgive you," said her father,
very kindly.

The poor girl sobbed so that she could not speak for some time, for the
tenderness of her parents made her feel a great deal worse than if they
had scolded her severely.

"What have you done, Kate?" repeated Mrs. Lamb.

"I didn't carry the milk to Mrs. O'Brien, mother," gasped the poor
penitent, as she uncovered her eyes, and looked up in the face of her
parents to notice the effect of her confession upon them.

"Didn't carry it to her?" was the exclamation of her father and mother
at the same time.

"No; I spilled it on the ground."

"Why, Kate! what did you do that for?"

"I couldn't help it--I mean I was careless. When Fanny Flynn struck me,
I ran after her. My foot tripped, and I fell, and spilled all the
milk."

"Why didn't you tell me so, Kate?"

"I didn't dare to tell you; I was afraid you would scold at me, as you
did for spoiling the peony."

Kate felt a little better now that she had confessed her fault, and she
was able to look her parents in the face.

"Why, Kate, if you had only told me, I should not have scolded you. You
may have been careless, but it was all the fault of Fanny Flynn."

"No, mother; I was careless. I forgot all about the milk, I was so
angry."

"And so the poor children had no supper, after all," added Mr. Lamb.

"O father! It was what you said about them that made me feel so bad. I
am sure I shall never be so very wicked again. Let me carry them some
milk now."

"What are you talking about? It is after ten o'clock, my child."

"No matter, father; I am not afraid to go in the dark, if I can only
carry them their supper."

"No, no, Kate. I will carry them the milk, though it is rather late, and
probably they are all asleep by this time."

"But will you forgive me, father and mother?"

"Freely, my child; you have suffered severely already for your fault,
and I hope it will be a lesson to you which will last as long as you
live," said her father.

"It will," said Kate, earnestly.

Both her parents kissed her, in token of their forgiveness; and Mr. Lamb
put on his coat, while Mrs. Lamb went to the cellar for a pail of milk,
with which he soon left the house on his errand of kindness and charity.

Kate felt a great deal better then, and before her father returned, she
was fast asleep. Mr. Lamb found the poor woman still up. The children
had had bread and water, but no milk, for their supper, and she was very
glad to have some for them when they waked up in the night. And she was
very grateful to Mr. Lamb for thinking of her at that hour, and thanked
God for giving her such kind and thoughtful friends.

From that time, Kate was a better girl, and tried hard to reform her
life and character. She tried so hard, and succeeded so well, that she
very soon lost the name of "Careless Kate."

[Illustration: KATE A BETTER GIRL.]

Mr. Lamb went to see Fanny Flynn's parents the next day, and they
promised to punish her for her conduct. After that Kate did not provoke
her, and they never had any more trouble.

Now my readers have seen that Kate's fault led her into falsehood and
deception, which are worse than carelessness; and I hope they will all
learn to be careful and truthful.




NOTHING TO DO.


   "My kitty is purring
     Upon the hearth rug
   Rolled up in a bundle
     Just like a great bug.
   I wonder what kitty
     Is thinking about;
   What makes her so happy
     I cannot find out.

   "She has no hard lessons
     To bother her brain,
   No spelling and reading
     To study in vain;
   She ought to be happy
     With nothing to do
   But play all the morning--
     And I should be, too."

   Thus Nellie kept thinking,
     And spoke out her thought.
   The words which she uttered
     Her mother's ear caught.
   "You wish to be idle
     Like kitty, dear, there,
   And play all the morning,
     Or sleep in your chair?"

   "I don't like my lessons;
     I think 'tis a pity
   I can't be as happy
     As dear little kitty.
   That ugly old spelling
     I never can learn!
   O, into a kitty
     I wish I could turn!"

   "I am not a fairy,"
     Her mother replied;
   "To me all the power
     Of magic's denied;
   But you may be idle
     From morning till night,
   And see if 'do nothing'
     Will set your case right."

   "O, shall I do nothing
     But play all day long,
   And sing with my kitty
     A holiday song?
   How happy, and merry,
     And joyous 'twill be
   To have no hard lessons--
     From study be free!"

   "Do what will best please you;
     Be idle all day;
   Recite no more lessons;
     Do nothing but play."
   Then Nellie, rejoicing,
     Flew out of the room;
   Played _hide_, _horse_, and _dolly_.
     And rode on the broom.

   But long before dinner
     Poor Nell had "played out,"
   And studied, and studied,
     And wandered about,
   To find some new pleasure,
     Some game, or some play,
   To use up the hours,
     And end that long day;--

   And long before evening
     Was cross as a bear--
   Just like the McFlimsey
     With "nothing to wear."
   And tired of nothing,
     And tired of play,
   No day was so tedious
     As that idle day.

   "O mother! my lessons
     I think I will get,
   And then I can play
     As I never played yet.
   I do not feel happy
     With nothing to do;
   I cannot endure it
     Another day through."

   "I thought so, my Nellie;
     To make your play sweet
   You must work, and be useful
     To those whom you meet.
   The idle are never
     So happy as they
   Who work for themselves
     Or for others each day."


       *       *       *       *       *

RIVERDALE STORIES.

BY OLIVER OPTIC.

Twelve volumes. Profusely Illustrated by BILLINGS.


   1. LITTLE MERCHANT.
   2. YOUNG VOYAGERS.
   3. CHRISTMAS GIFT.
   4. DOLLY AND I.
   5. UNCLE BEN.
   6. BIRTHDAY PARTY.
   7. PROUD AND LAZY.
   8. CARELESS KATE.
   9. ROBINSON CRUSOE, JR.
   10. THE PICNIC PARTY.
   11. THE GOLD THIMBLE.
   12. THE DO-SOMETHINGS.


LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS, BOSTON.

THE RIVERDALE BOOKS.



