
Behind him, figures jiggled on the screen. "It's a darn sight more than
nice," he said, raising his voice over the shrill and thump of the
music. "It's expensive, for one thing. Who else do you know that can
afford--"

"But--"

"But nothing! Imagine it, Flora! It'll be like having a ... a balcony
seat, looking out on other people's lives."

"But we have so little space now; won't it take up--"

"Of course not! How do you manage to stay so ignorant of technical
progress? It's only an eighth of an inch thick. Think of it: that
thick--" Harry indicated an eighth of an inch with his fingers--"and
better color and detail than you've ever seen. It's all done with what
they call an edge-excitation effect."

"Harry, the old screen is good enough. Couldn't we use the money for a
trip--"

"How do you know if it's good enough? You never have it on. I have to
turn it on myself when I get home."

Flora brought the trays and they ate silently, watching the screen.
After dinner, Flora disposed of the trays, retracted the table and
chairs, and extended the beds. They lay in the dark, not talking.

"It's a whole new system," Harry said suddenly. "The Full-wall people
have their own programming scheme; they plan your whole day, wake you
up at the right time with some lively music, give you breakfast menus
to dial, then follow up with a good sitcom to get you into the day;
then there's nap music, with subliminal hypnotics if you have trouble
sleeping; then--"

"Harry--can I turn it off if I want to?"

"Turn it off?" Harry sounded puzzled. "The idea is to leave it on.
That's why I'm having it installed for you, you know--so you can use
it!"

"But sometimes I like to just think--"

"Think! Brood, you mean." He heaved a sigh. "Look, Flora, I know the
place isn't fancy. Sure, you get a little tired of being here all
the time; but there are plenty of people worse off--and now, with
Full-wall, you'll get a feeling of more space--"

"Harry--" Flora spoke rapidly--"I wish we could go away. I mean leave
the city, and get a little place where we can be alone, even if it
means working hard, and where I can have a garden and maybe keep
chickens and you could chop firewood--"

"Good God!" Harry roared, cutting her off. Then: "These fantasies of
yours," he said quietly. "You have to learn to live in the real world,
Flora. Live in the woods? Wet leaves, wet bark, bugs, mould; talk about
depressing...."

There was a long silence.

"I know; you're right, Harry," Flora said. "I'll enjoy the Full-wall.
It was very sweet of you to think of getting it for me."

"Sure," Harry said. "It'll be better. You'll see...."
