
The Full-wall was different, Flora agreed as soon as the service men
had made the last adjustments and flipped it on. There was vivid color,
fine detail, and a remarkable sense of depth. The shows were about the
same--fast-paced, bursting with variety and energy. It was exciting
at first, having full-sized people talking, eating, fighting, taking
baths, making love, right in the room with you. If you sat across the
room and half-closed your eyes, you could almost imagine you were
watching real people. Of course, real people wouldn't carry on like
that. But then, it was hard to say what real people might do. Flora had
always thought Doll Starr wore padded brassieres, but when she stripped
on Full-wall--there wasn't any fakery about it.

Harry was pleased, too, when he arrived home to find the wall on. He
and Flora would dial dinner with one eye on the screen, then slip into
bed and view until the Bull-Doze pills they'd started taking took
effect. Perhaps things _were_ better, Flora thought hopefully. More
like they used to be.

But after a month or two, the Full-wall began to pall. The same
faces, the same pratfalls, the same happy quiz masters, the puzzled
prize-winners, the delinquent youths and fumbling dads, the bosoms--all
the same.

On the sixty-third day, Flora switched the Full-wall off. The light and
sound died, leaving a faint, dwindling glow. She eyed the glassy wall
uneasily, as one might view the coffin of an acquaintance.

It was quiet in the apartment. Flora fussed with the dial-a-ration,
averting her eyes from the dead screen. She turned to deploy the
solitaire table and started violently. The screen, the residual glow
having faded now, was a perfect mirror. She went close to it, touched
the hard surface with a finger. It was almost invisible. She studied
her reflected face; the large dark eyes with shadows under them, the
cheek-line, a trifle too hollow now to be really chic, the hair drawn
back in an uninspired bun. Behind her, the doubled room, unadorned now
that all the furnishings were retracted into the floor except for the
pictures on the wall: photographs of the children away at school, a
sunny scene of green pastureland, a painting of rolling waves at sea.

She stepped back, considering the effect.
