
The floor and walls seemed to continue without interruption, except for
a hardly noticeable line. It was as though the apartment were twice as
large. If only it weren't so empty....

Flora deployed the table and chairs, dialled a lunch, and sat, eating,
watching her double. No wonder Harry seemed indifferent lately,
she thought, noting the rounded shoulders, the insignificant bust,
the slack posture. She would have to do something in the way of
self-improvement.

Half an hour of the silent companionship of her image was enough.
Flora snapped the screen back on, watched almost with relief as a
grinning cowboy in velvet chaps made strumming motions while an
intricately-fingered guitar melody blared from the sound track.

Thereafter, she turned the screen off every day, at first only for an
hour, later for longer and longer periods. Once, she found herself
chatting gaily to her reflection, and hastily fell silent. It wasn't as
though she were becoming neurotic, she assured herself; it was just the
feeling of roominess that made her like the mirror screen. And she was
always careful to have it on when Harry arrived home.

It was about six months after the Full-wall had been installed that
Harry emerged one day from the lift smiling in a way that reminded
Flora of that earlier evening. He dropped his brief-case into his floor
locker, looked around the apartment, humming to himself.

"What is it, Harry?" Flora asked.

Harry glanced at her. "It's not a log cabin in the woods," he said.
"But maybe you'll like it anyway...."

"What ... is it, dear...."

"Don't sound so dubious." He broke into a broad smile. "I'm getting you
another Full-wall."

Flora looked puzzled. "But this one is working perfectly, Harry."

"Of course it is," he snapped. "I mean you're getting another wall;
you'll have two. What about that? Two Full-walls--and nobody else
in the cell-block has one yet. The only question is--" he rubbed his
hands together, striding up and down the room, eyeing the walls--"which
wall is it to be? You can have it adjacent, or opposite. I went over
the whole thing with the Full-wall people today. By God, they're doing
a magnificent job of programming. You see, the two walls will be
synchronized. You're getting the same show on both--you're seeing it
from two angles, just as though you were right there in the middle of
it. Their whole program has been built on that principle."

"Harry, I'm not sure I want another wall--"

"Oh, nonsense. What is this, some kind of self-denial urge? Why not
have the best--if you can afford it. And by God, I can afford it. I'm
hitting my stride--"
