
Harry munched his yeast chop, his head moving from side to side as he
followed the action across the three walls.

"It's marvellous, Flora. Marvellous. But it can be better yet," he
added mysteriously.

"Harry--couldn't we move to a bigger place--and maybe do away with two
of the walls. I--"

"Flora, you know better than that. I'm lucky to have gotten this
apartment when I did; there's nothing--absolutely nothing available."
He chuckled. "In a way, the situation is good job insurance. You know,
I couldn't be fired, even if the company wanted to: They couldn't get
a replacement. A man can't very well take a job if he hasn't a place
to live in the city--and I can sit on this place as long as I like; we
might get tired of issue rations, but by God we could hold on; so--not
that anybody's in danger of getting fired."

"We could move out of the city, Harry. When I was a girl--"

"Oh, not again!" Harry groaned. "I thought that was all threshed out,
long ago." He fixed a pained look on Flora. "Try to understand, Flora.
The population of the world has doubled since you were a girl. Do you
realize what that means? There are more people alive now than had been
born in all previous human history up to fifty years ago. That farm
you remember visiting as a kid--it's all paved now, and there are tall
buildings there. The highways you remember, full of private autos,
all driving across open country; they're all gone. There aren't any
highways, or any open country except the TV settings and a few estates
like the President's acre and a half--not that any sun hits it, with
all those buildings around it--and maybe some essential dry-land farms
for stuff they can't synthesize or get from the sea."

"There has to be some place we could go. It wasn't meant that people
should spend their lives like this--away from the sun, the sea...."

A shadow crossed Harry's face. "I can remember things, too, Flora," he
said softly. "We spent a week at the beach once, when I was a small
boy. I remember getting up at dawn with the sky all pink and purple,
and going down to the water's edge. There were little creatures in the
sand--little wild things. I could see tiny fish darting along in a wave
crest, just before it broke. I could feel the sand with my toes. The
gulls sailed around overhead, and there was even a tree--

"But it's gone now. There isn't any beach, anywhere. That's all
over...."

He broke off. "Never mind. That was then. This is now. They've paved
the beach, and built processing plants on it, and they've paved the
farms and the parks and the gardens--but they've given us Full-wall to
make up for it. And--"
