
There was a buzz from the door. Harry got to his feet.

"They're here, Flora. Wait'll you see...."

Something seemed to tighten around Flora's throat as the men emerged
from the lift, gingerly handling the great roll of wall screen.

"Harry...."

"Four walls," Harry said triumphantly. "I told you I was working toward
something, remember? Well, this is it! By God, the Harry Trimble's have
shown 'em!"

"Harry--I can't--not four walls...."

"I know you're a little overwhelmed--but you deserve it, Flora--"

"Harry, I don't WANT four walls! I can't stand it! It will be
all around me--"

Harry stepped to her side, gripped her wrist fiercely. "Shut up!" he
hissed. "Do you want the workmen to think you're out of your mind?" He
grinned at the men. "How about a coflet, boys?"

"You kiddin?" one inquired. The other went silently about the work of
rolling out the panel, attaching contact strips. Another reached for
the sea-scene--

"No!" Flora threw herself against the wall, as though to cover the
pictures with her body. "You can't take my pictures! Harry, don't let
them."

"Look, sister, I don't want your crummy pictures."

"Flora, get hold of yourself! Here, I'll help you put the pictures in
your floor locker."

"Bunch of nuts," one of the men muttered.

"Here, keep a civil tongue in your head," Harry started.

The man who had spoken stepped up to him. He was taller than Harry and
solidly built. "Any more crap outa you and I'll break you in half. You
and the old bag shut up and keep outa my way. I gotta job to do."

Harry sat beside Flora, his face white with fury. "You and your
vaporings," he hissed. "So I have to endure this. I have a good mind
to ..." he trailed off.

The men finished and left with all four walls blaring.

"Harry," Flora's voice shook. "How will you get out? They've put it
right across the door; they've sealed us in...."

"Don't be a bigger idiot than you have to." Harry's voice was ugly
over the thunder from the screens. He went to the newly covered wall,
groped, found the tiny pin-switch. At a touch, it slid aside as always,
revealing the blank face of the lift shaft safety door. A moment later
it too slid aside and Harry forced his way into the car. Flora caught a
glimpse of his flushed angry face as the door closed.
