
When Harry came, she would show him how it was. He would see that
the Full-walls weren't enough. They all had them, and they were all
unhappy. When Harry came--

It was time now. She knew it. After so many years, you didn't need a
watch to tell when Harry was due. She had better get up, make herself
presentable. She rose unsteadily to her feet. The other husbands were
coming, too, Flora noted; all the wives were getting ready. They moved
about, opening their floor lockers, patting at their hair, slipping
into another dress. Flora went to the dial-a-ration and all around,
in all the apartments, the wives deployed the tables and dialled the
dinners. She tried to see what the woman next door was dialling, but it
was too far. She laughed at the way her neighbor craned to see what SHE
was preparing. The other woman laughed, too. She was a good sport.

"Kelpies," Flora called cheerily. "And mockspam, and coflet...."

Dinner was ready now. Flora turned to the door-wall and waited. Harry
would be SO pleased at not having to wait. Then, after dinner
she'd explain about her illness--

Was it the right wall she was waiting before? The line around the door
was so fine you couldn't really see it. She laughed at how funny it
would be if Harry came in and found her standing, staring at the wrong
wall.

She turned, and saw a movement on her left--in the next apartment.
Flora watched as the door opened. A man stepped in. The next-door woman
went forward to meet him--

To meet Harry! It was Harry! Flora whirled. Her four walls stood blank
and glassy, while all around her, the other wives greeted Harry,
seated him at their tables, and offered him coflet....

"Harry!" she screamed, throwing herself at the wall. It threw her back.
She ran to the next wall, hammering, screaming. Harry! Harry!

In all the other apartments, Harry chewed, nodded, smiled. The other
wives poured, fussed over Harry, nibbled daintily. And none of
them--not one of them--paid the slightest attention to her....

She stood in the center of the room, not screaming now, only sobbing
silently. In the four glass walls that enclosed her, she stood alone.
There was no point in calling any longer.

No matter how she screamed, how she beat against the walls, or how she
called for Harry--she knew that no one would ever hear.


                                THE END

