
Blascomb had a very persistent thought-call. Donovan relaxed in the
office chair and let his consciousness-levels sink to the call-number.

"This is the moment," the thought patterns registered. "The C.D.
is about to close in with the faked evidence we've prepared. Your
brother-in-law's about to call. Trust in me; all is ready. Do not
become frightened, for excessive adrenalin might upset the required
endocrine balance."

Before he could frame a reply, Blascomb's thought faded away. The
office door slid open and Edel W. Crane walked in. Donovan's heart
throbbed painfully: was this an unexpected crisis in their plans, or
had Blascomb prepared even this?

"The C.D.'s finished its analysis," Crane said, "I thought you might be
interested."

"Naturally, I--"

"The case was very simple. I wish citizens would realize that they
cannot fight against the enormous resources of the C.D. We will
destroy--"

The public-screen flashed urgently. Donovan excused himself and turned
the knob. His brother-in-law's angry face switched into view.

"Donovan! That was a dirty rotten thing to do. What right did you have
to denounce me to the C.D.? I should kill you for this!"

Donovan's bewilderment was genuine. He felt Crane's eyes upon him, and
a thrill of admiration for Blascomb's genius suddenly swept through him.

"What do you want?" he managed to say.

"I've got to see you immediately. I'm downstairs, in back of the
pilo-cab station."

"Later--"

"Now!"

The image snapped off. Donovan turned to the C.D. agent. "'Scuse me for
a moment," he stammered, "some family trouble. I'll be back in a short
while."

Crane glanced up. "I'll wait."

Donovan walked through his office, conscious that he was doing this
for the last time. Rejuvenation was like death. You put an end to a
lifetime casually and without haste.

At the pilo-cab station, the wind cutting down from the whirr of
swooping cabs, Donovan met Blascomb. There were two bright flashes, and
then the smell of disintegrated flesh. Blascomb gestured toward two
graying pools on the plasticized floor in back of them.

"Murder and suicide," he said, obviously pleased with himself, "The
C.D. will think you are dead. The murderer's body is also there to
provide a motive for the transfer of the Trust's funds in the event
Crane becomes too thorough. He'll be here soon; we work fast now."
