
The special pilo-cab dropped them into a gravity-shielded warehouse
above the European Desert. It housed Blascomb's laboratory. The
rejuvenation process was even simpler than Donovan had expected.

"Not the Fountain of Youth, exactly," Blascomb explained as he plunged
in the needle, "but a selective antibody that attacks only aging tissue
and forces replacements practically on an embryonic level of activity.
Unlike the Callistan serum, which is merely a stimulant, this antibody
creates from its destroyed tissue a catalyst capable of stimulating
chromosomes and genes. By the very process of feeding upon itself, the
body grows younger. The net result is a reversal of the life process,
an anabolism making you grow younger, year by year."

"Eventually to disappear as a single cell?"

"Ultimately, yes. Long before that period, probably when you're a
young man, you'll have to return to 2482 for a reversion to normal
metabolism."

"The process can be repeated?"

"Indefinitely."

Donovan breathed deeply. "Immortality!"

Blascomb did not smile. "Only if the C.D. does not find you. Unlicensed
rejuvenation is punishable by execution in an extremely painful manner.
You're a doomed man now if the C.D. even finds you. The worst tortures
of the Middle Ages would be nothing compared to what Crane would do to
you or me if he tracks us down."

"You can stay in the present time-cycle," Donovan said, "but I'm tired
of control and supervision. Send me to some period where an individual
had a chance to work and live without state control. Give me the times
of individualism!"

"C.D. agents are everywhere in the time-cycles, tracking down illegal
immigrants. Quite a number of the men I've rejuvenated chose the
Renaissance for escape, but I'm afraid that a good part of that cycle's
carnage was the work of such C.D. agents as our friend Crane. I'd
recommend another period."

"The Golden Age of Greece?"

Blascomb shook his head. "Already taken. Aristotle, Plato, and a few
others are 25th century men. Archimedes was murdered by a C.D. agent,
and Socrates sent to his death by a group of them."

"Their fates were known to history--why did those men leave the 25th
century to live in that cycle?"

He shrugged his shoulders. "They probably felt that the few years of
extra life were worth it. Well, into what period do you want to go and
what would you do there?"

"I do not understand the paradoxes," Donovan said, "What if I chose to
build gravity-deflectors in Ancient Rome?"

"It would be impossible because there were no such manufacturers then.
It would mean that you were either promptly killed by a C.D. agent who
recognized the anachronistic attempt, or you had changed your mind."

"But if I can choose any period, it means that I can alter history at
will--which presumes that the present can also be changed."

"That is what the Komitet believes, and that is why the C.D. is so
ruthless and brutal with unlicensed time travellers. The real answer
is that in the final analysis your decision to choose a certain
time period is already made, and the things you will do are already
determined. Free will is an illusion; it is synonymous with incomplete
perception."

"Then send me into the 20th century. As an engineer I would be able to
make some sort of living there."

"Dangerous. Don't practice your profession. Study some field which is
completely alien to you so that should you come across a C.D. agent he
would not recognize the work of a 25th century man."

"You mean like an artist or a writer?"

"Why not?"

Donovan laughed. "I've never held a paint brush or written more than a
one-page letter, but why not? Unloose the cyclic band, Blascomb; set me
loose in the 20th century, and give my regards to the C.D.!"
