
In the dimly lighted garret above the tavern, Donovan stood before his
easel. His face was no longer lined, for the past twenty-five years
had made him a much younger man. He had taken Blascomb's advice and
had studied a field completely alien to him. In his own time, the 25th
century, his paintings would have been considered laughably amateurish,
but for 1926 they were infinitely superior to anything produced by 20th
century artists.

"Why can't they _see_?" he asked his agent angrily, when his third show
passed without the sale of a single painting.

"I can see them," the agent said, standing in front of a still-life
abstraction with flashes of color, "but your way of working is too far
advanced for our time. Believe me, a few hundred years from now your
paintings will be regarded as the work of a great genius."

"In the meantime, I starve."

"I can help you."

Donovan threw down the paint brushes. "No. No. There's no use being
ahead of one's time. I can't make a living as an artist. I may as well
go back to digging ditches."

"Maybe you can work part-time and paint at night. What did you do
before you started painting?"

He hesitated, but what was there to be afraid of? "I--I was an
engineer."

"I can get you a job with a construction company."

"No. No! I want nothing whatever to do with engineering! Nothing!"

In the 25 years that he had lived in the 20th century he had turned
from a man of 65 to a healthy, robust 40. For a long time he had lived
in fear that the dreaded arms of the C.D. would reach out for him, and
that he would stand face to face with terror-inspiring Crane. But he
had never met anyone who seemed to be a C.D., a Criminal Destroyer.
Sometimes he felt the avenging sword of the Komitet hanging over his
head.

There were some statesmen and philosophers mentioned in the newspapers
whose ideas seemed to indicate a 25th century origin, but he avoided
them in the fear that they might be plants to draw out the illegals. It
was probably that the C.D. would never find out the deception, and if
they did there was little chance of locating him among the two billion
people on Home Planet.

"You have to make a living somehow," the agent persisted.

"I know nothing but engineering," Donovan said, "and that I will never
do."

"Maybe there's some other field in which you could use engineering
skills." He thought for a moment, and then reached into his briefcase.
"I picked this up on a newsstand. You might like it."

Donovan glanced at the magazine's cover.

"It's the latest thrill--scientific fiction. Maybe with your
engineering knowledge you could write a story or two."
