
When the agent left, Donovan read through the magazine, then went
out to look up other stories of the same nature. One story offered a
time-travel theory which was absurdly inaccurate. Another purported
to deal with the inhabitants of Mars, none of which looked at all
the way the writers imagined them to be. Donovan read as many as he
could find, and was fascinated by the hopeless incompetence and
scientific inaccuracy of the so-called writers. The time-travel story
was laughable; even a child could produce a far more exciting tale by
describing the Watson-Gorshevich experiments that lead to the discovery
of repetitive time-cycles back in 2364.

_Why not_, he thought to himself. _Why not write these stories of
the future? Who could do them better than a man who had come from
the future?_ These were not engineering journals where accuracy was
required, nor would anyone ever act upon the scientific discoveries he
might record. Above all, no one would attempt to build any machines
which would immediately attract the attention of the C.D. He would do
nothing which would in the slightest way affect historic development.

Pressed by the need for money, and fascinated by the possibilities
in science fiction, Donovan began to write a story. He employed a
pen-name, and avoided the general theory of retrograde-cycle travel
backward above time, but limited himself to travelling spirally into
the future. He described the mechanism he himself would have to produce
in order to get back to Blascomb for anabolism-correction, and produced
a fanciful tale regarding life in the year 3,000. The letter from the
editor came within a week.

    _Dear Mr. Donovan_:

    _Enclosed find check for your story, "Turn Backward, O Time!" I have
    seldom read a more convincing fantasy. One could almost believe that
    the apparatus you described would actually work. I believe this
    story will be a science-fiction classic and am placing your original
    manuscript in my collection. I would appreciate seeing other
    examples of your work._

When the story appeared in print, several paragraphs describing
the construction of the time-machine were omitted by the editor.
"Technically unconvincing," they told him; "they mar up the
verisimilitude of a great story." "Turn Backward, O Time!" became an
instant success.

A few days later, Donovan contributed another story, this time based
on actual events on Jupiter which he simply transferred to a different
time-cycle on Vega. Vaguely recalling some warning of Blascomb's that
while the future could not be changed, it was best to play safe and
not draw the attention of the C.D., he twisted and changed all the
scientific facts involved. The check for the second story was promptly
sent.

Within a few months Donovan, under his pseudonym, which was kept
secret, was launched upon his career as a writer of science fiction.
Readers praised him for his convincing fantasy and editors competed for
his services.
