
Memory of the 25th century gradually faded from his mind as years
passed. At times he awoke in horror after nightmares that Crane of the
C.D. had finally caught him, but these terrifying dreams became rarer.
He had exposed himself repeatedly in fiction. Time and time again he
had described actual historical events of the Space Colony Wars in
his stories. On one occasion he described the technique for the cure
of cancer discovered in 2019. The readers' section of the magazine
soon carried letters from doctors who were amused that a writer could
present such a simple household remedy and dare suggest that it might
be efficacious for cancer.

Donovan was amused by the thought that Crane might be diligently
searching for him somewhere in the Renaissance; if so, the C.D. agent's
fury must be mounting.

He changed his name and identity every ten years to conceal his gradual
return to youth. He had the pleasure of seeing himself hailed as his
successor in popularity, as he established new names and let the older
ones die out. His excuse to the editors was that he wanted to enter
into competition anew, make sure that his name alone was not carrying
the stories. He was happy. Sometimes, however, later stories were
panned by "fans" as "imitations of the classics by the greatest stf
writer the world has ever known."

Only the aging gentleman who had bought Donovan's first manuscript
knew, but the old man signed the checks and said nothing.

In his happiness and self-satisfaction, Donovan became more careless
with his stories. If he had been able to outwit Crane and the dreaded
C.D., surely he could dash off stories good enough for the poor minds
of 20th century science-fiction readers!

Then the tide turned. Fan letters in the magazines began really to tear
into his fiction; they _were_ third-rate; they lacked imagination.
They were ordinary stories written by an ordinary mind; and science
fiction required tales written by men whose minds were well ahead of
20th century thought. The day finally came when all the editors began
rejecting his stories. First one, then another--and finally every story
written received a rejection slip.

Donovan could not understand the reason for the change. A few years
ago--or was it decades?--each story of his was labelled a "classic";
now they were not even acceptable. Had science fiction changed so much
since his decision to become a writer in 1929? He dared not discuss it
with anyone, for he had no friends and he trusted no one. The C.D. was
everywhere, but there was one man in whom he had the deepest confidence.

Donovan visited the aging editor and felt sorry for the worn-out old
man. He himself had once been like this, but was now free from death.
He thought of taking his benefactor with him into the 25th century
and saving the editor's life. But suppose Blascomb's laboratory had
been captured? Donovan could manage for himself, but it would be cruel
to leave the old man in the deadly hands of the C.D. No, it was best
to say nothing about rejuvenation to the editor; he would only think
Donovan was trying out a story-idea.

"I've been your editor for thirty years," the old man's voice cracked.
His half-blind eyes loomed through thick lenses.

"It's been a long time," Donovan said.

"My--My eyes are not what they used to be," the other said, "A man
about 50 years old wrote that great classic, "Turn Backward, O Time!"
He must be about 80 now. But you look only 20. Ah, laddie, you're
trying to fool me. You must be his son!"

"That's right," Donovan said quickly, "We have the same name."

"Then that explains it," the other said wearily; "it would break my old
heart if a talent like your father's disintegrated. But we came to talk
about your stories. No, son, you're not the writer your father was.
Your tales lack imagination; there is no originality in them. The ideas
are hackneyed, the writing third-rate. They sound like poor imitations
of the great tales told by your father. There was a man! There was a
writer!"
