
Excitedly, for he knew his life depended on it, he rummaged through his
book shelves looking for a copy of his first story, "Turn Backward, O
Time!" It contained, he remembered, a concise, accurate description
of the mechanism for the time-machine. The magazine itself was old,
the sheets turning brown and the pages breaking. He read the story in
haste, vaguely remembering the plot. The actual description of the
operating mechanism, he found to his consternation, was missing. "I
will cut one or two paragraphs," the editor had said, "_They are not
convincing, technically ... they lack verisimilitude!_"

Not convincing! If he did not find them he was doomed to become a
child, and then a babbling idiot of a baby and would disappear entirely
within twenty years. He telephoned the magazine's office and asked for
the editor.

"Sorrree," the secretary said, "Mr. O'Sloane is quite ill. The doctors
are afraid he might not pass through the night. He's very old, you
know."

"Can he speak?" Donovan asked desperately.

"He's had a stroke. Can't say a word. Completely paralyzed, Sorrreee."

Donovan cursed the carelessness that had led him to this difficult
position. He knew that O'Sloane kept the originals of his favorite
stories in a collection in his office. If O'Sloane died it was
possible that some enterprising youthful editor would destroy the old
manuscripts in a fit of house-cleaning.

"This is Donovan," he said quickly, "I am trying to locate the original
copy of "Turn Backward, O Time" which O'Sloane has in his files. I must
study the original papers; it's extremely important. If there is a
substitute editor, will you ask him to keep an eye open for it."

"Cerrrtainleee."

He sighed and took a taxi to the editorial office. It would be best
to get it as quickly as possible. The original manuscript was quite
safe. Donovan need only copy the original description. Even if he were
no longer able to grasp the theory of it, the machine was still easy
enough to build from the description.

Within a few hours he would be back in the 25th century for a reversal.
For his next trip back he would choose Ancient Egypt. The 20th century
was heading for the Atomic Wars and he was fortunate in being able to
escape. After Egypt he would choose the Inca civilization. Did they not
have legends of white gods that ruled them? The world was his, and he
would be forever young. Immortality was within his grasp. No one could
stop him now.

He arrived at the building and rushed up the steps to the editorial
office.

"We found the manuscript, Mr. Donovan," the secretary told him
brightly, looking twice at the flushed, handsome face.
