
Mitch, reclining in loneliness against the rocket-launcher, blew a
thoughtful cloud of cigarette smoke toward the bright yellow eye of
Arcturus, almost directly overhead, and wondered why the Constellation
Booetes suddenly looked like a big club ready to fall on the earth, when
it had always reminded him of a fly-swatter about to slap the Corona
Borealis. He searched himself for horror, but found only a gloomy
uneasiness. It was funny, he thought; five years ago men would have been
outraged at the notion of an American absolutism, with one man ruling by
decree. But now that it had happened, it was not to hard to accept. He
wondered at it.

And he soon decided that almost any fact could be accepted calmly after
it had already happened. Men would be just as calm after their cities
had been reduced to rubble. The human capacity for calmness was almost
unlimited, _ex post facto_, because the routine of daily living had to
go on, despite the big business of governments whose leaders invoked the
Deity in the cause of slaughter.

A voice, echoing up out of the conning tower, made him jump. The command
set was barking his call letters.

"Unit Sugar William Niner Zero, Mother wants you. I say again: Mother
wants you. Acknowledge please. Over."

The message meant: _return to base immediately_. And it implied an
urgency in the use of the code-word Mother. He frowned and started up,
then fell back with a low grunt.

All of his resentment against the world's political jackasses suddenly
boiled up inside him as a _personal_ resentment. There was something
about the metallic rasp of the radio's voice that sparked him to sudden
rebelliousness.

"Unit Sugar William Niner Zero, Mother wants you, Mother wants you.
Acknowledge immediately. Over."

He had a good idea what it was all about. All subs were probably being
called in for rearmament with cobalt-rigged atomic warheads for their
guided missiles. The submarine force would probably be used to implement
Garson's ultimatum. They would deliver radiological death to Eurasian
coastal cities, and cause the Soviets to retaliate.

_Why must I participate in the wrecking of mechanical civilization?_ he
thought grimly.

But a counter-thought came to trouble him: _I have a duty to obey; The
country gave me birth and brought me up, and now it's got a war to
fight._

He arose and let himself down through the conning tower. He reached for
the microphone, but the receiver croaked again.

"Sugar William Niner Zero, you are ordered to answer immediately.
Mother's fixing shortening bread. Mother wants you. Over."

Shortening bread--big plans, something special, a radiological
death-dish for the world. He hated the voice quietly. His hand touched
the microphone but did not lift it.

He stood poised there in the light of a single glow-lamp, feeling his
small sub rocking gently in the calm sea, listening to the quiet purr of
the atomics beneath him. He had come to love the little sub, despite the
loneliness of long weeks at sea. His only companion was the sub's small
computer which was used for navigation and for calculations pertaining
to the firing of the rocket-missiles. It also handled the probability
mathematics of random search, and automatically radioed periodic
position reports to the home-base computer.

He glanced suddenly at his watch, it was nearly time for a report.
Abruptly he reached out and jerked open the knife-switch in the
computer's antenna circuit. Immediately the machine began clicking and
clattering and chomping. A bit of paper tape suddenly licked out of its
answer-slot. He tore it off and read the neatly printed words:
MALFUNCTION, OPEN CIRCUIT, COMMUNICATIONS OUTPUT; INSERT DATA.

Mitch "inserted data" by punching a button labelled NO REPAIR and
another labelled RADIO OUT. One bank of tubes immediately lost its
filament-glow, and the computer shot out another bit of tape inscribed
DATA ROGERED. He patted it affectionately and grinned. The computer was
just a machine, but he found it easy to personalize the thing....

The command-set was crackling again. "Sugar William Niner Zero, this is
Commsubron Killer. Two messages. Mother wants you. Daddy has a razor
strap. Get on the ball out there, boy! Acknowledge. Over."

Mitch whitened and picked up the microphone. He keyed the transmitter's
carrier and spoke in a quiet hiss. "Commsubron Killer from Sugar William
Niner Zero. Message for Daddy. Sonnyboy just resigned from the Navy. Go
to hell, all of you! Over and out!"

He shut off the receiver just as it started to stutter a shocked reply.
He dropped the mike and let it dangle. He stood touching his fingertips
to his temples and breathing in shallow gasps. Had he gone completely
insane?

He sat down on the floor of the tiny compartment and tried to think. But
he could only feel a bitter resentment welling up out of nowhere. Why?
He had always gotten along in the Navy. He was the undersea equivalent
of a fighter pilot, and he had always liked his job. They had even said
that "he had the killer instinct"--or whatever it was that made him grin
maliciously when he spotted an enemy sub and streaked in for the kill.
