
"I don't know where I was born--for, as I daresay Randle has told you,
I was only five years of age when I was picked up at sea in a boat,
the only other occupant of which was a Swedish seaman. The vessel which
rescued us was one of the transports used for conveying convicts to New
South Wales, and was named the _Britannia_, but when she sighted the
boat she was on a voyage to Tahiti in the Society Islands. I imagine
this was sometime about 1805, so I must now be about seventy years of
age.

"The Swedish sailor told the captain of the _Britannia_ that he and I
were the only survivors of a party of six--among whom were my father and
mother--belonging to a small London barque named the _Winifred_, She was
employed in the trade between China and Valparaiso, and my father was
owner as well as captain. On the voyage from Canton, and when within
fifty miles of Tahiti, and in sight of land, she took fire, and the
Chinese crew, when they saw that there was no hope of the ship being
saved, seized the longboat, which had been prepared, and was well
provisioned, and made off, although the cowardly creatures knew that the
second boat was barely seaworthy. My father--whose name the Swede did
not know--implored them to return, and at least take my mother and
myself and an officer to navigate their boat to land. But they refused
to listen to his pleadings, and rowed off. The second boat was hurriedly
provisioned by my father and his officers, and they, with my mother and
myself and the Swede--all the Europeans on board--left the burning ship
at sundown. A course was steered for the eastern shore of Tahiti, which,
although the wind was right ahead, we hoped to reach on the evening of
the following day. But within a few hours after leaving the barque the
trade wind died away, and fierce, heavy squalls burst from the westward
upon the boat, which was only kept afloat by constant bailing. About
dawn the sea had become so dangerous, and the wind had so increased in
violence, that an attempt was made to put out a sea-anchor. Whilst this
was being done a heavy sea struck the boat and capsized her. The night
was pitchy dark, and when the Swede--who was a good swimmer--came to
the surface he could neither see nor hear any of the others, though he
shouted loudly. But at the same moment, as his foot touched the line
to which the sea anchor was bent, he heard the mate's voice calling for
assistance.

"'I have the child,' he cried. 'Be quick, for I'm done.'

"In another minute the brave fellow had taken me from him; then the poor
mate sank, never to rise again. Whether I was alive or dead my rescuer
could not tell, but being a man of great physical strength, he not only
kept me above water with one hand, but succeeded in reaching first the
sea-anchor-four oars lashed together--and then the boat, which had been
righted by another sea.

"How this brave man kept me alive in such a terrible situation I do not
know. By sunrise the wind had died away, the sea had gone down, and he
was able to free the boat of water. In the stern-sheet locker he found
one single tin of preserved potatoes, which had been jammed into a
corner when the boat capsized--all the rest of the provisions, with the
water-breakers as well, were lost. On this tin of potatoes we lived--so
he told the master of the _Britannia_--for five days, constantly in
sight of the land around which we were drifting, sometimes coming
to within a distance of thirty miles of it. All this time, by God's
providence, we had frequent heavy rain squalls, and the potato tin,
which was about eighteen inches square, and was perfectly water-tight,
proved our salvation, for the potatoes were so very salt that we would
have perished of thirst had we been unable to save water. Ohlsen cut
down one of his high sea-boots, and into this he would put two handfuls
of the dried potatoes, and then fill it up with water. It made a good
sustaining food after it had been softened by the water and kneaded into
a pulp.

"An hour before dawn, on the sixth day, Ohlsen, who was lying on the
bottom boards of the boat, was awakened by hearing me crying for my
mother. The poor fellow, who had stripped off his woollen shirt to
protect my little body from the cold, at once sat up and tried to
comfort me. The sea was as smooth as glass, and only a light air was
blowing. Drawing me to his bare chest--for I was chilled with the keen
morning air--he was about to lie down again, when he heard the creaking
of blocks and then a voice say, 'Ay, ay, sir!' and there, quite near us,
was a large ship! In a moment he sprang to his feet, and hailed with all
his strength; he was at once answered, the ship was brought to the wind,
a boat lowered, and in less than a quarter of an hour we were on board
the _Britannia_.

"On that dear old ship I remained for five years or more, for the
captain had his wife on board, and although she had two young children
of her own, she cared for and loved me as if I had been her own
daughter. Most of this time was spent among the Pacific Islands, and
then there came to me another tragedy, of one of which I have a most
vivid remembrance, for I was quite eleven years old at the time.

"The _Britannia_, like many South Seamen of those times, was a letter of
marque, and carried nine guns, for although we were, I think, at peace
with Spain, we were at war with France, and there were plenty of French
privateers cruising on the South American coast, with whom our ships
were frequently engaged. But none had ever been seen so far eastward
as the Galapagos Islands, and so we one day sailed without fear into a
small bay on the north-west side of Charles Island to wood and water.

"On the following morning the captain, whose name was Rossiter, ordered
my old friend Ohlsen, who was now gunner on the _Britannia_, to take
four hands and endeavour to capture some of the huge land tortoises
which abound on the islands of the group. I was allowed to go with them.
Little did I think I should never again see his kindly face when I took
my seat in the boat and was rowed ashore. Besides Ohlsen and myself,
there were two English seamen, a negro named King and a Tahitian native.
The youngest of the English sailors was named Robert Eury; he was about
twenty-two years of age, and a great favourite of the captain who knew
his family in Dorset, England.

"We hauled the boat up on a small sandy beach, and then started off into
the country, and by noon we had caught three large tortoises which we
found feeding on cactus plants. Then, as we were resting and eating, we
suddenly heard the report of a heavy gun, and then another and another.
We clambered up the side of a rugged hill, from the summit of which we
could see the harbour, a mile distant, and there was the _Britannia_
lying at anchor, and being attacked by two vessels! As we watched the
fight we saw one of the strange ships, which were both under sail, fire
a broadside at our vessel, and the second, putting about, did the same.
These two broadsides, we afterwards heard, were terribly disastrous,
for the captain and three men were killed, and nine wounded. The crew,
however, under the mate, still continued to work her guns with the
utmost bravery and refused to surrender. Then a lucky shot from one
of her 9-pounders disabled the rudder of the largest Frenchmen, which,
fearing to anchor so near to such a determined enemy, at once lowered
her boats and began to tow out, followed by her consort. At the entrance
to the bay, however, the smaller of the two again brought-to and began
firing at our poor ship with a 24-pounder, or other long-range gun, and
every shot struck. It was then that the mate and his crew, enraged at
the death of the captain, and finding that the ship was likely to be
pounded to pieces, determined to get under weigh and come to close
quarters with the enemy, for the _Britannia_ was a wonderfully fast
ship, and carried a crew of fifty-seven men. But first of all he sent
ashore Mrs. Rossiter, her two children, a coloured steward, and all the
money and other valuables in case he should be worsted. His name was
Skinner, and he was a man of the most undaunted resolution, and had at
one time commanded a London privateer called the _Lucy_, which had
made so many captures that Skinner was quite a famous man. But his
intemperate habits caused him to lose his command, and he had had
to ship on the _Britannia_ as chief mate. He was, however, a great
favourite with the men, who now urged him to lead them on and avenge the
loss of the captain; so the moment the boat returned from landing Mrs.
Rossiter he slipped his cable, and stood out to meet the enemy.

"We, from the hill, watched all this with the greatest interest and
excitement, and then Ohlsen turned to the others and said, 'Let us get
back to the boat at once. The captain has got under weigh to chase those
fellows, and we should be with him.'

"So we descended to the beach, where we met the poor lady and her
children, and heard that her husband was dead. She begged Ohlsen not
to leave her, but he said his duty lay with his shipmates; then
she besought him to at least leave Robert Eury with her, as she was
terrified at the idea of having to spend the night on such a wild island
with no one but the coloured steward to protect her and her children.
At this time--although we could not see them--we knew the ships were
heavily engaged, for the roar of the cannon was continuous. So, much to
his anger, young Eury was bidden to remain with the captain's wife,
her son aged twelve, her daughter Ann, who was three years younger, the
coloured steward, and myself. Then, bidding us goodbye, Ohlsen and his
three men went off in the boat, and were soon out of sight.

"Young as he was, Robert Eury had good sense and judgment. He was angry
at Mr. Skinner venturing out to attack such well-armed vessels with
our poor 9-pounders, and although he had been most anxious to join
his shipmates, he was, he afterwards told me, pretty sure that the
_Britannia_ would have to strike or be sunk. The first thing he did,
however, was to make all of our party comfortable. At the head of the
bay there was an empty house, which had been built by the crews of the
whaleships frequenting the Galapagos as a sort of rest-house for the men
sent to catch tortoises. To this place he took us, and set the steward
to work to get us something to eat, for Mr. Skinner had sent provisions
and wine ashore. Then he took the ship's money, which amounted to about
thirteen hundred pounds, and buried it a little distance away from the
house. I helped him, and when the bags were safely covered up he turned
to me with a smile lighting up his brown face.

"'There, Molly. That's done, and if Mr. Skinner has to strike, and the
Frenchmen come here, they'll get nothing but ourselves.'

"By this time it was well on towards the afternoon, and we only heard
a cannon shot now and then. Then the sound of the firing ceased
altogether. We got back to the house and waited--we knew not for what.
Poor Mrs. Rossiter, who was a very big, stout woman, had sobbed herself
into a state of exhaustion, but she tried to brace herself up when she
saw us, and when Robert Eury told her that he had buried the money, she
thanked him.

"'Try and save it for my children, Robert I fear I shall not be long
with them. And if I am taken away suddenly I want you to bear witness
that it was my husband's wish, and is mine now, that Mary here is to
share alike with my son Fred and my daughter Ann. Would to God I had
means here to write.'

"Robert tried to comfort her with the assurance that all would be well,
when as he spoke we saw a sight at which I, girl of twelve as I was,
was struck with terror--the two French ships appeared round the headland
with the _Britannia_ following with French colours at her peak. The
three came in together very slowly, and then dropped anchor within a
cable's length of the beach. The captain's wife looked at them wildly
for a moment, and then fell forward on her face. She died that night.

"The two French captains treated us very kindly, and they told Robert,
who spoke French well, that Mr. Skinner had made a most determined
attempt to board the larger of the two vessels, but was killed by a
musket-shot, and that only after thirty of the _Britannia's_ crew had
been killed and wounded, and the ship herself was but little more than a
wreck, did Ohlsen, who was himself terribly wounded by a splinter in
the side, haul down his flag. Then the elder of the two Frenchmen asked
Robert which was the child named 'Marie.'

"'This is the child, sir,' said Eury, pointing to me.

"'Then let her come with me and see the gunner of our prize,' said he;
'he is dying, and has asked to see her.'

"I was taken on board the Britannia, over her bloodstained decks, and
into the main cabin, where poor Ohlsen was lying breathing his last. His
face lit up when he saw me, and he drew me to his bosom just as he had
done years before in the open boat off Tahiti. I stayed with him till
the last, then one of the French privateer officers led me away.

"In the morning Mrs. Rossiter was buried; the French captains allowing
some of the surviving members of the crew of the _Britannia_ to carry
her body to her grave. There was a young Spanish woman--the wife of the
older captain--on board the larger of the privateers, and she took care
of us three children. I cannot remember her name, but I do remember that
she was a very beautiful woman and very kind to us, and told us through
an interpreter that we should be well cared for, and some day go home to
England; and when she learned my own particular story she took me in her
arms, kissed, and made much of me.

"About noon the crew of the _Britannia_ were ranged on deck, and the
elder of the two French captains called on Robert Eury to step out.

"'This man here,' he said in English, indicating the coloured steward,
tells me that you have buried some money belonging to the prize. Where
is it?'

"'I cannot tell you,' replied Robert; 'the captain's wife told me it
belonged to her children and to the little girl Mary.'

"The Frenchman laughed. 'It belongs to us now; it is prize money, my
good boy.'

"Eury looked at him steadily, but made no answer.

"' Come,' said the captain impatiently, 'where is it?'

"'I cannot tell you.'

"The younger of the captains laughed savagely, and stepped up to him,
pistol in hand.

"'I give you ten seconds to tell.'

"'Five will do, monsieur,' replied Robert, in French, 'and then you will
be losing five seconds of your time. I shall not tell you. But I should
like to say goodbye to my dead captain's children.'

"'The young Frenchmen's face purpled with fury. 'Very well then, you
fool!' and he raised his pistol to murder the young man, when the older
captain seized his arm.

"'Shame, Pellatier, shame! Would you kill such a brave man in cold
blood? Let us be satisfied with getting such a good ship. Surely you
would not shoot him for the sake of a few hundred dollars?'

"'There may be thousands. How can we tell?' replied Pellatier.

"Robert laughed, and then raised his hand in salute to the elder
captain.

"'Captain Pellatier is right, sir. Madame Melville told me that there
were thirteen hundred pounds in the bags which I have buried. And on
certain conditions I will tell you where to find it.'

"'Name them.'

"'The money is fair prize money. That I admit. But you will never see
it, unless you agree to my conditions, and pledge me your word of honour
to observe them honourably. I am not afraid to die, gentlemen.'

"'You are a bold fellow, and ought to have been a Frenchman--but be
quick, name the conditions.'

"'Half of the money to be given to these orphan children, whose pitiable
condition should appeal to you. And promise me on your honour as men
that you will land them at Valparaiso, or some other civilised place,
from where they may reach England. If you will not make this promise,
you can shoot me now.'

"'And what of yourself?' said Pellatier, who was a little dark man
with very ugly monkey-like features; 'you would be the guardian of this
money, no doubt, my clever fellow.'

"The insulting manner in which he spoke exasperated Eury beyond
endurance, and he made as if he would strike the man; but he stopped
suddenly, and looking contemptuously at the Frenchman uttered the one
word--

"'_Babouin!_'

"It nearly cost him his life, for Pellatier, stung to fury by the loud
laughter of his fellow-captain, again levelled his pistol at the young
man, and again the older captain seized his arm.

"'By Heaven, you shall not harm him!' he cried, amid a murmur of
applause from the crew. Then addressing Eury he said. I give you my
promise. The children and yourself are under my protection, and when we
reach Valparaiso I will put you all on shore.' Then he ordered one of
his officers to escort Robert ashore and get the money.

"Eury thanked him quietly, and then he turned to Pellatier, and said he
was sorry he used an offensive word to him; but Pellatier received his
apology with a scowl, and turned away. In half an hour Eury returned
with the officer, carrying the money. It was counted and divided, and
it was easy to see that Dupuis, the elder captain, was very pleased
when the young man asked him to take charge of the half of the money
belonging to the Rossiter children and myself.

"The three ships sailed in company for South America a week later. I
remained on board the _Britannia_ together with Robert Eury and six
others of her original crew, the Rossiter children being taken by
the Spanish lady on board the larger of the privateers, the second
lieutenant of which, with about twenty men, were drafted to the prize.
After keeping in close company for four or five days we lost sight of
the privateers, much to the annoyance of our captain, who was a very
indifferent navigator, as he soon showed by altering his course to E. by
S. so as to pick up the coast of South America as soon as possible.
This was a most fortunate thing for us, for at daylight on the following
morning two sail were seen, not five miles distant, and to our intense
delight proved to be English letters of marque--the barque _Centurion_
of Bristol and the barque _Gratitude_ of London. They at once closed in
upon and engaged us, and although the Frenchmen made a good fight,
they had to strike after a quarter of an hour's engagement, for the
_Centurion_ was a very heavily armed ship.

"Her captain was a very old man named Richard Glass. He came on board
the _Britannia_ and spoke very good-humouredly to the French lieutenant,
for on neither side had any one been killed, and he saw that the
_Britannia_ was a fine ship. He told the Frenchmen to take the longboat,
and as much provisions and water as they liked, and make for the coast,
which was less than seventy miles distant. This was soon done, and
our former captors parted from us very good friends, every one of
them coming up and shaking hands with Robert Eury and calling him _bon
camarade_.

"Captain Glass put his own chief officer in charge of the _Britannia_
(with Robert as his mate) and ordered him to proceed to Port Jackson and
await the arrival there of the _Centurion_ and her consort. We arrived
at our destination safely, and as soon as my story was known many kind
people wanted to adopt me; but the agent of the _Britannia_ took me
to his own home, where I lived for many happy years as a member of his
family. Robert Eury was then appointed mate of a vessel in the China
trade, but I saw him every year. Then when I was seventeen years of age
he asked me to marry him, and I did so gladly, for he was always present
in my thoughts when he was away, and I knew he loved me."



