
"The trouble is," Alcorn said, "that I'm different from other people and
I have to know why. I know _how_ I'm different, but if I knew _why_, I'd
never have come to a psychiatrist."

Dr. Hagen rattled the data sheet in his hands and blinked behind his
pince-nez like a friendly beagle. He was a very puzzled man, being
accustomed to analyzing his own reactions as well as those of his
patients. Alcorn could see him struggling to account for the sudden
serenity that had come over him the instant Alcorn entered the
office--certainly it was not the doctor's usual frame of mind, from the
first sour look of him--and failing.

"Different in what way, Mr. Alcorn?"

"I soothe people," Alcorn said. "There's something about me that
inspires trust and an eagerness to please. Everyone roughly within a
radius of fifty feet--I've checked the limit a thousand
times--immediately feels a sort of euphoria. They're as happy as so many
children at a picnic and they can't do enough for me or for each other."

Dr. Hagen blinked, but not with disbelief.

"It affects psychiatrists, too," Alcorn went on. "You'd cheerfully waive
the fee for this consultation if I asked it, or lend me fifty credits if
I were strapped. The point is that people are never difficult when I'm
around, because I was born with the unlikely gift of making them happy.
That gift is the most valuable asset I own, but I've never understood
it--and as long as I don't understand it, there's the chance that it may
be a mixed blessing. I think it's backfired on me already in one fashion
and possibly in another."

He shook out a cigarette and the psychiatrist obligingly held a lighter
to it. Dr. Hagen, Alcorn thought, must normally have been an
exceptionally strong-willed man, for he hesitated noticeably before he
spun the wheel.

[Illustration]

"Actually," Alcorn said, "I've begun to worry about my sanity and I'm
afraid my gift is responsible. For the past week, I've had a recurrent
hallucination, a sort of waking nightmare that comes just when I least
expect it and leaves me completely unstrung. It's worse than
recurrent--it's progressive, and each new seizure leaves me a little
closer to something that I'm desperately afraid to face."

The psychiatrist made a judicious tent of his fingers. "Obviously you
are an intelligent and conscientious man, Mr. Alcorn, else you would not
have contented yourself with your comparatively minor job. But your
profession as claims adjustor must impose a considerable strain upon
your nervous organization. Add to this that you are a bachelor at the
age of thirty-three and the natural conclusion--"

In spite of his mood, Alcorn laughed. "Wrong tack--remember my gift!
Besides, I'm engaged to be married next month and I'm quite happy with
the prospect. This trouble of mine is something entirely different. It's
tied in somehow with my talent for soothing and it scares me."

He could have added that Jaffers' hardly veiled threat on his life
disturbed him as well, but saw no point in wasting time on the one
danger he understood perfectly.

"This vision," Alcorn said, "and the sensory sharpness and conviction of
disaster that come with it--it's no ordinary hallucination. It's as real
as my peculiar talent and represents a very real danger. It's working
some sort of change in me that I don't like and I've got to find out
what that change is or I'm done for. I _feel_ that."

Obligingly, the psychiatrist said, "Describe your experience."

Talking about it made perspiration stand out on Alcorn's forehead.
"First I'm seized with a sudden sense of abnormally sharpened
perception, as if I were on the point of becoming aware of a great many
things beyond my immediate awareness. I can feel the emotions of people
about me and I have the conviction that, in another moment, I shall be
able to feel their thoughts as well.

"Then I seem to be standing alone on a frozen arctic plain, a polar
wasteland that should be utterly deserted, but isn't. I've no actual
sensations of touch or hearing, yet the scene is visually sharp in every
detail.

"There's a small village of corrugated sheet-metal houses just ahead,
the sort that engineers on location might raise, and the streets between
are packed with snow. Machines loaded with metal boxes crawl up and down
those streets, but I've never seen their drivers. Until this morning, I
never saw any people at all on the plain."

Dr. Hagen rattled his paper and nodded agreeably. "Go on. What are these
people like?"

"I can't tell you that," Alcorn said, "because their images were not
complete. There seems to be a sort of relationship between them and
myself--a threatening one--but I can't guess what it may be. I can't
even tell you what racial type they belong to, because they have no
faces."

He crushed out his cigarette and took a deep breath, getting to the
worst of it. "I have a distinct conviction during each of these seizures
that the people I see are not ordinary human beings, that they're as
different from me as I am from everyone else, though not in the same
way. It's the difference that makes me uneasy. I can feel the urgency
and the resolution in them, as if they were determined to do--or had
resigned themselves to doing--something desperately important. And then
I know somehow that each of them has made some kind of decision
recently, a decision that is responsible for his being what he is and
where he is, and that I'll have to make a similar one when the time
comes. And the worst of it is that I know no matter which way my choice
falls, I'm going to be hideously unhappy."

The psychiatrist asked tranquilly, "You can't guess what choice it is
that you must make, or its alternative?"

"I can't. And that's the hell of it--not knowing."

The icy chill of the polar plain touched him and with it came a deeper
cold that had not been a part of the dream. At that instant, he might
have identified its source, but was afraid to.

"My fear has some relation to whatever it is these people are about to
do," he said. "I just realized that. But that doesn't help, because I've
no idea what it is."

He glanced at his strap watch, and the time made him stand up before the
little psychiatrist could speak again. The hour was 15:57, and he saw in
dismay that his 16:00 appointment with Sean O'Donnell and the Irradiated
Foods tycoon would be late.

"I don't expect an immediate opinion," he said. "You couldn't reach one
as long as I'm here. Add up what I've told you, and if it makes any sort
of sense you can radophone me tonight at 19:00. If my apartment doesn't
answer, relay the call to my cabin in the Catskills--I've kept the
location a secret, for privacy's sake, but the number is on alternate
listing."

He paused briefly at the door, touched with an uncharacteristic flash of
sour humor. "And telestat your bill to me. If I asked for it now, you'd
probably charge nothing."
