
The mood vanished as soon as he was outside and saw the gray-suited
Jaffers operative waiting with stolid patience on the ramp of a
department store across the street.

The shock of reminder brought on a giddy recurrence of his
hallucination.

The polar plain yawned before him. The silent machines crept over their
snow-packed ways, the faceless people stood in frozen groups.

He emerged from the seizure, shaken and sweating, to find that the
Jaffers man had crossed the street and was waiting a safe distance
behind. Alcorn fought down a panic desire to run away blindly only
because Kitty would be waiting for him at Consolidated--Kitty, his
bulwark of reassurance.

The gray-suited man was a deliberate hundred feet behind him when he
boarded a tube-car.

Kitty was not in his office and there was no time to ring for her.

Instead, he went through the long accounting room beyond, answering
automatically the smiles of a suddenly genial staff and headed for
O'Donnell's office.

He saw at once that he was too late.

The CA manager's door was open and O'Donnell and Mulhall of Irradiated
Foods were emerging. Both wore street jackets and both men had the
unmistakable air of euphoric calm that came within seconds of Alcorn's
approach.

O'Donnell gave Alcorn his familiar long-lipped grin, looking, with his
thin gentle face and neat brush of ermine-white hair, like an
aristocratic Irish saint.

"You missed a pleasant meeting," O'Donnell said. "I've just signed a
refund release to Charlie here, and a pleasure it was."

The awareness that they had been calmed before he'd arrived left Alcorn
speechless.

"Really shouldn't have accepted," Mulhall said sheepishly. Mulhall was a
big, solid man, bald and paunchy and, when his normal instincts were
controlled, an argumentative tyrant. "Niggling technicality, I say.
Shouldn't have taken a refund, but Sean here insisted."

They laughed together, like children sharing a joke.

"The claim was justified," O'Donnell said firmly. "Once Charlie's
secretary explained the case, there was no doubt."

Mulhall grinned at Alcorn. "Remarkable girl, Janice Wynn. She's waiting
in Sean's office. Wants to meet you, Philip."

They went toward the lift with their arms about each other, sharing an
all-too-brief moment of companionship.
