
He halted outside, feeling like a man just recovering vision after a
long blindness. Janice Wynn was in the cabin and she was alone. He knew
that as certainly as if he had seen her walk in.

[Illustration]

When he went in, she was standing before the wide cold mouth of the
cabin's fireplace. She wore the same quiet suit she had worn in
O'Donnell's office, and her tilted green eyes were at once relieved and
anxious.

"I was afraid you might have lost your head and run away," she said.
"It's good you didn't. There wouldn't have been time to find you
again--the change is too close on us both."

"Change?"

She gave him a disappointed look. "I thought you'd have guessed by now
the relation between ourselves and those people in the clippings. You
had another seizure in the 'copter, didn't you?"

He stared, too disconcerted to answer.

"You saw four faces this time," she went on, "where you had seen none
before. And you recognized one."

"It was Ellis, the chemist," Alcorn said. And with a numb premonition of
the truth, he quietly asked, "How did you know that?"

"You were broadcasting it like a beacon. We're both in the last stages
of the change. Now that our conditioning is lifting, we're reverting to
our original telepathic nature. That's how _they_ found you and me, as
they found Ellis and the others--by tracking down our communication
auras."

He said slowly, "Those four--why were they mobbed and killed?"

"Because the change caught them too suddenly for escape," she said. "And
because, in our natural state, we are incompatible with Man."

"With Man," he repeated. "And what does that make us? Supermen or
monsters?"

"You're still blinded by your conditioning," she answered, "or you'd see
that we're neither, that we're not even native to this planet. I don't
know a great deal more than that myself--I haven't remembered it all
yet, because the change isn't complete...."

She broke off and, with both hands above the fireplace, gripped the
rough stone of the mantelpiece. Her tilted green eyes burned with a
contradictory play of emotions; the soft planes of her face seemed to
shift and alter, seeking an impossible balance between ecstasy and
terror and a tearing, intolerable agony.

"I'm learning the rest ... now," she whispered. "Sooner than ... I
thought."

He sensed the change that possessed her, the struggling of new emotions,
the shattering of imposed concepts and conditionings and their
realigning to shape a new personality, a new person. He knew from that
moment that she had been right, and that what he had feared from the
beginning of his first seizure was about to happen to him.

She closed her eyes briefly. When she opened them again, Alcorn drew
back. Then resentment flared in him and he was suddenly furious, at the
alteration of status that left him on the defensive.

He remembered the clippings and understood something of the frustrated
rage that must have gripped the howling mobs when they killed the two
ministers and the Nevada doctor and the Girl Scout leader.

Janice Wynn straightened from the fireplace, her head tilted as if she
were listening to some sound beyond range of his own hearing.

"Someone is coming," she said. Her voice had changed as much as her
face; her eyes watched him with a remote yet curiously intimate
compassion. "Not our people. It isn't time for them yet."

She was at the cabin door before he realized that she had moved.

"Stay here," she ordered. "Don't open the door for anyone. For _anyone_,
do you hear?"

She was gone into the outside darkness.

Alcorn felt it himself then, the indefinable certainty of approach. A
turbo-copter, then another, slanting down toward his hideaway, two
speeding machines filled with grimly intent men--Jaffers' agents.

The 'copters landed about a hundred yards away from the cabin. There was
a dragging silence and then a booming, amplified voice.

"Alcorn, come out!"

He stood fast, feeling above their tension the swift progress of Janice
Wynn through the darkness toward them. She was close to the nearer
machine when he felt a sudden veering of her attention, followed the
direction of her probing, and sensed another 'copter angling down out of
the night.

Her mental order was as urgent as a shout: _Let no one in. No one!_

She moved on. The pilot of the third 'copter was only beginning to
assume identity to Alcorn's sharpened senses when Janice Wynn drew
within effective reach of the nearer grounded machine.

The amplified voice was calling again: "Come out, Alcorn, or we'll have
to--"

It broke off short in a scream. There was a flurry of shots, a white
flash in the darkness and a concussion that shook the cabin.

He felt Janice turn and run purposefully through the darkness toward the
second 'copter.

The third machine was dropping in for landing when he identified its
pilot.

"Kitty!" he breathed. "Dear God, Kitty!"

She was at the door, the terror and tenderness of her crying
overwhelming his flinching perception. "Philip, let me in! Philip
darling, are you all right?"

She was inside and in his arms before he could prevent it.

She clung to him frantically until the effect of his presence calmed
her. The terror went out of her eyes slowly, but the tears glistening on
her cheeks contradicted her smile of relief.

"Thank God you're safe, Philip! When I heard on the visinews about Dr.
Hagen--"

Janice Wynn's silent command was violent in Alcorn's head. _Put her out
quickly! Do you want her there when your own change comes?_

He caught Kitty's hands and drew her toward the door.

"You can't stay here, Kitty. There's no time to explain. I'll call later
and tell you everything."

She showed her hurt beneath the placidity his gift imposed upon her. "If
I must, Philip. But--"

He threw open the door. "Don't argue, Kitty. For God's sake, go!"
