
The blast of the second turbo-copter's explosion might have precipitated
the seizure that took him just then.

The polar plain sprang up about him, more terribly cold and stark than
ever, its clustering buildings and metal machines standing out in such
clear perspective that he was certain he could have put out a hand and
touched them.

But the people were faceless no longer, except for one that knelt before
the group in a tense attitude. Janice Wynn stood over that one while its
features filled in slowly, line by line, growing more and more familiar
as the face neared identity.

By the time Alcorn realized that it was his own face, the change was
fully upon him.

A vast icy wind roared in his ears. A force seized and flung him,
distorted and disoriented, to infinity. There was darkness and terror
and then a chorus of calm voices calling reassurance. Pain gripped him,
and panic, and finally an ecstasy of remembering that was beyond
imagining.

Dimly, he heard Kitty's screaming. Something struck him furiously on the
shoulder and he felt his distant physical body struggle automatically
for balance.

A second blow caught him on the temple and he fell heavily, his new
awareness flickering toward unconsciousness. There was a confusion of
voices about him and Kitty's raw shrilling died away.

He lay still, secure in the certainty that he was no longer alone.

Mind after mind brushed his, lightly, yet more warming than any clasping
of hands, and with each touch, he identified and embraced an old friend
whose regard was dearer than his own life. He knew who they were. He was
one of them--again.

_It's over_, Janice Wynn's voice said gently. _Do you remember me now,
Filrinn?_

_Janeen_, he said. He stood up slowly.

Her green eyes stirred with an emotion that matched his own. It was
incredible that he could ever have forgotten--no matter how thoroughly
he had absorbed the protective conditioning--the unity between himself
and Janeen.

_I remember_, he said. The wonder of it still dazed him. _It's good to
be myself again._

She sighed. _It's good to know why they sent me, instead of one of the
others, to bring you back. You remember that?_

"I remember," he said aloud, as if he needed to say the words to make it
true. "We were together before this assignment for two hundred of these
people's years. We'll be together again for hundreds more, now that
we're free to go--for when will we ever find another world that needs
attention as this one needed it?"
